IEEE Std 1800-2017
IEEE Standard for SystemVerilog—Unified Hardware Design, Specification, and Verification Language
69
Copyright © 2018 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5. Lexical conventions
5.1 General 
This clause describes the following: 
—
Lexical tokens (white space, comments, operators)
—
Integer, real, string, array, structure, and time literals
—
Built-in method calls
—
Attributes
5.2 Lexical tokens 
SystemVerilog source text files shall be a stream of lexical tokens. A lexical token shall consist of one or
more characters. The layout of tokens in a source file shall be free format; that is, spaces and newline
characters shall not be syntactically significant other than being token separators, except for escaped
identifiers (see 5.6.1). 
The types of lexical tokens in the language are as follows:
—
White space 
—
Comment 
—
Operator
—
Number 
—
String literal 
—
Identifier 
—
Keyword 
5.3 White space 
White space shall contain the characters for spaces, tabs, newlines, and formfeeds. These characters shall be
ignored except when they serve to separate other lexical tokens. However, blanks and tabs shall be
considered significant characters in string literals (see 5.9).
5.4 Comments 
SystemVerilog has two forms to introduce comments. A one-line comment shall start with the two
characters // and end with a newline character. A block comment shall start with /* and end with */. Block
comments shall not be nested. The one-line comment token // shall not have any special meaning in a block
comment.
5.5 Operators 
Operators are single-, double-, or triple-character sequences and are used in expressions. Clause 11
discusses the use of operators in expressions.
Unary operators shall appear to the left of their operand. Binary operators shall appear between their
operands. A conditional operator shall have two operator characters that separate three operands.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Richard DJE. Downloaded on April 22,2021 at 14:18:32 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
