IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
366
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
20. Programming language interface (PLI) overview
20.1 PLI purpose and history
IEEE Std 1364-2005 has deprecated the task/function (TF) and access (ACC) routines, which were specified
previously in Clause 21 through Clause 25, Annex E, and Annex F of IEEE Std 1364-2001. Clause 20 has
been modified to reflect this change. The text of deprecated clauses and annexes has been removed from this
version of the standard, but the clause headings have been retained. See the corresponding clauses in IEEE
Std 1364-2001 for the deprecated text.
Clause 26, Clause 27, and Annex G describe the C language procedural interface standard and interface
mechanisms that are part of the Verilog HDL. This procedural interface, known as the PLI, provides a
means for Verilog HDL users to access and modify data in an instantiated Verilog HDL data structure
dynamically. An instantiated Verilog HDL data structure is the result of compiling Verilog HDL source
descriptions and generating the hierarchy modeled by module instances, primitive instances, and other
Verilog HDL constructs that represent scope. The PLI procedural interface provides a library of C language
functions that can directly access data within an instantiated Verilog HDL data structure.
A few of the many possible applications for the PLI procedural interface are as follows:
—
C language delay calculators for Verilog model libraries that can dynamically scan the data structure
of a Verilog software product and then dynamically modify the delays of each instance of models
from the library
—
C language applications that dynamically read test vectors or other data from a file and pass the data
into a Verilog software product
—
Custom graphical waveform and debugging environments for Verilog software products
—
Source code decompilers that can generate Verilog HDL source code from the compiled data
structure of a Verilog software product
—
Simulation models written in the C language and dynamically linked into Verilog HDL simulations
—
Interfaces to actual hardware, such as a hardware modeler, that dynamically interact with
simulations
There are three primary generations of the Verilog PLI:
a)
Task/function routines, called TF routines, made up the first generation of the PLI. These routines,
most of which started with the characters tf_, were primarily used for operations involving user-
defined system task/function arguments, along with utility functions, such as setting up call-back
mechanisms and writing data to output devices. The TF routines were sometimes referred to as
utility routines
NOTE—The TF routines have been deprecated from this version of the standard (see 1.6).
b)
Access routines, called ACC routines, formed the second generation of the PLI. These routines,
which all started with the characters acc_, provided an object-oriented access directly into a Verilog
HDL structural description. ACC routines were used to access and modify information, such as
delay values and logic values, on a wide variety of objects that exist in a Verilog HDL description.
There was some overlap in functionality between ACC routines and TF routines.
NOTE—The ACC routines have been deprecated from this version of the standard (see 1.6).
c)
Verilog procedural interface routines, called VPI routines, are the third generation of the PLI. These
routines, all of which start with the characters vpi_, provide an object-oriented access for both
Verilog HDL structural and behavioral objects. The VPI routines are a superset of the functionality
of the TF routines and ACC routines.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE
Std 1364-2005
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
367
20.2 User-defined system task/function names
A user-defined system task/function name is the name that will be used within a Verilog HDL source file to
invoke specific PLI applications. The name shall adhere to the following rules:
—
The first character of the name shall be the dollar sign ($).
—
The remaining characters shall be letters, digits, the underscore character (_), or the dollar sign ($).
—
Uppercase and lowercase letters shall be considered to be unique—the name is case sensitive.
—
The name can be any size, and all characters are significant.
20.3 User-defined system task/function types
The type of a user-defined system task/function determines how a PLI application is called from the Verilog
HDL source code. The types are as follows:
—
A user task can be used in the same places a Verilog HDL task can be used (see 10.2). A user-
defined system task can read and modify the arguments of the task, but does not return any value.
—
A user function can be used in the same places a Verilog HDL function can be used (see 10.4). A
user-defined system function can read and modify the arguments of the function, and it returns a
value. The bit width of a vector shall be determined by a user-supplied sizetf application (see 27.34).
20.4 Overriding built-in system task/function names
Clause 17 defines a number of built-in system tasks and functions that are part of the Verilog language. In
addition, software products can include other built-in system tasks and functions specific to the product.
These built-in system task/function names begin with the dollar sign ($) just as user-defined system task/
function names do.
If a user-provided PLI application is associated with the same name as a built-in system task/function (using
the PLI mechanism), the user-provided C application shall override the built-in system task/function,
replacing its functionality with that of the user-provided C application. For example, a user could write a
random number generator as a PLI application and then associate the application with the name $random,
thereby overriding the built-in $random function with the user’s application.
Verilog timing checks, such as $setup, are not system tasks and cannot be overridden.
The system functions $signed and $unsigned can be overridden. These system functions are unique in the
Verilog HDL in that the return width is based on the width of their argument. If overridden, the PLI version
shall have the same return width for all instances of the system function. The PLI return width is defined by
the PLI sizetf routine.
20.5 User-supplied PLI applications
User-supplied PLI applications are C language functions that utilize the library of PLI C functions to access
and interact dynamically with Verilog HDL software implementations as the Verilog HDL source code is
executed.
These PLI applications are not independent C programs. They are C functions that are linked into a software
product and become part of the product. This allows the PLI application to be called when the user-defined
system task/function $ name is compiled or executed in the Verilog HDL source code (see 26.1).
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
368
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
20.6 PLI mechanism
The PLI mechanism provides a means to have PLI applications called for various reasons when the
associated system task/function $ name is encountered in the Verilog HDL source description. For example,
when a Verilog HDL simulator first compiles the Verilog HDL source description, a specific PLI routine
can be called that performs syntax checking to ensure the user-defined system task/function is being used
correctly. Then, as simulation is executing, a different PLI routine can be called to perform the operations
required by the PLI application. Other PLI routines can be automatically called by the simulator for
miscellaneous reasons, such as the end of a simulation time step or a logic value change on a specific signal
(see 26.1).
20.7 User-defined system task/function arguments
When a user-defined system task/function is used in a Verilog HDL source file, it can have arguments that
can be used by the PLI applications associated with the system task/function. In the following example, the
user-defined system task $get_vector has two arguments:
$get_vector("test_vector.pat", input_bus);
The arguments to a system task/function are referred to as task/function arguments (often abbreviated as
tfargs). These arguments are not the same as C language arguments. When the PLI applications associated
with a user-defined system task/function are called, the task/function arguments are not passed to the PLI
application. Instead, a number of PLI routines are provided that allow the PLI applications to read and write
to the task/function arguments. See Clause 27 for information on specific routines that work with task/
function arguments.
20.8 PLI include files
The libraries of PLI functions are defined in a C include file, which is a normative part of this standard. This
file also defines constants, structures, and other data used by the library of PLI routines and the interface
mechanisms. The file is vpi_user.h (listed in Annex G). PLI applications that use the VPI routines shall
include the file vpi_user.h.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
