IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
158
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
11. Scheduling semantics
11.1 Execution of a model
The balance of the clauses of this standard describe the behavior of each of the elements of the language.
This clause gives an overview of the interactions between these elements, especially with respect to the
scheduling and execution of events.
The elements that make up the Verilog HDL can be used to describe the behavior, at varying levels of
abstraction, of electronic hardware. An HDL has to be a parallel programming language. The execution of
certain language constructs is defined by parallel execution of blocks or processes. It is important to
understand what execution order is guaranteed to the user and what execution order is indeterminate.
Although the Verilog HDL is used for more than simulation, the semantics of the language are defined for
simulation, and everything else is abstracted from this base definition.
11.2 Event simulation
The Verilog HDL is defined in terms of a discrete event execution model. The discrete event simulation is
described in more detail in this subclause to provide a context to describe the meaning and valid
interpretation of Verilog HDL constructs. These resulting definitions provide the standard Verilog reference
model for simulation, which all compliant simulators shall implement. However, there is a great deal of
choice in the definitions that follow, and differences in some details of execution are to be expected between
different simulators. In addition, Verilog HDL simulators are free to use different algorithms from those
described in this clause, provided the user-visible effect is consistent with the reference model.
A design consists of connected threads of execution or processes. Processes are objects that can be
evaluated, that may have state, and that can respond to changes on their inputs to produce outputs. Processes
include primitives, modules, initial and always procedural blocks, continuous assignments, asynchronous
tasks, and procedural assignment statements.
Every change in value of a net or variable in the circuit being simulated, as well as the named event, is
considered an update event.
Processes are sensitive to update events. When an update event is executed, all the processes that are
sensitive to that event are evaluated in an arbitrary order. The evaluation of a process is also an event, known
as an evaluation event.
In addition to events, another key aspect of a simulator is time. The term simulation time is used to refer to
the time value maintained by the simulator to model the actual time it would take for the circuit being
simulated. The term time is used interchangeably with simulation time in this clause.
Events can occur at different times. In order to keep track of the events and to make sure they are processed
in the correct order, the events are kept on an event queue, ordered by simulation time. Putting an event on
the queue is called scheduling an event.
11.3 The stratified event queue
The Verilog event queue is logically segmented into five different regions. Events are added to any of the
five regions, but are only removed from the active region.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE
Std 1364-2005
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
159
a)
Active events occur at the current simulation time and can be processed in any order.
b)
Inactive events occur at the current simulation time, but shall be processed after all the active events
are processed.
c)
Nonblocking assign update events have been evaluated during some previous simulation time, but
shall be assigned at this simulation time after all the active and inactive events are processed.
d)
Monitor events shall be processed after all the active, inactive, and nonblocking assign update
events are processed.
e)
Future events occur at some future simulation time. Future events are divided into future inactive
events and future nonblocking assignment update events.
The processing of all the active events is called a simulation cycle.
The freedom to choose any active event for immediate processing is an essential source of nondeterminism
in the Verilog HDL.
An explicit zero delay (#0) requires that the process be suspended and added as an inactive event for the
current time so that the process is resumed in the next simulation cycle in the current time.
A nonblocking assignment (see 9.2.2) creates a nonblocking assign update event, scheduled for a current or
later simulation time.
The $monitor and $strobe system tasks (see 17.1) create monitor events for their arguments. These events
are continuously reenabled in every successive time step. The monitor events are unique in that they cannot
create any other events.
The callback procedures scheduled with PLI routines such as vpi_register_cb(cbReadWriteSynch) (see
27.33) shall be treated as inactive events.
11.4 Verilog simulation reference model
In all the examples that follow, T refers to the current simulation time, and all events are held in the event
queue, ordered by simulation time.
while (there are events) {
if (no active events) {
if (there are inactive events) {
activate all inactive events;
} else if (there are nonblocking assign update events) {
activate all nonblocking assign update events;
} else if (there are monitor events) {
activate all monitor events;
} else {
advance T to the next event time;
activate all inactive events for time T;
}
}
E = any active event;
if (E is an update event) {
update the modified object;
add evaluation events for sensitive processes to event queue;
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
160
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
} else { /* shall be an evaluation event */
evaluate the process;
add update events to the event queue;
}
}
11.4.1 Determinism
This standard guarantees a certain scheduling order:
a)
Statements within a begin-end block shall be executed in the order in which they appear in that
begin-end block. Execution of statements in a particular begin-end block can be suspended in
favor of other processes in the model; however, in no case shall the statements in a begin-end
block be executed in any order other than that in which they appear in the source.
b)
Nonblocking assignments shall be performed in the order the statements were executed (see 9.2.2).
Consider the following example:
initial begin
a <= 0;
a <= 1;
end
When this block is executed, there will be two events added to the nonblocking assign update queue.
The previous rule requires that they be entered on the queue in source order; this rule requires that
they be taken from the queue and performed in source order as well. Hence, at the end of simulation
time 0, the variable a will be assigned 0 and then 1.
11.4.2 Nondeterminism
One source of nondeterminism is the fact that active events can be taken off the queue and processed in any
order. Another source of nondeterminism is that statements without time-control constructs in behavioral
blocks do not have to be executed as one event. Time control statements are the # expression and @
expression constructs (see 9.7). At any time while evaluating a behavioral statement, the simulator may
suspend execution and place the partially completed event as a pending active event on the event queue. The
effect of this is to allow the interleaving of process execution, although the order of interleaved execution is
nondeterministic and not under control of the user.
11.5 Race conditions
Because the execution of expression evaluation and net update events may be intermingled, race conditions
are possible:
assign p = q;
initial begin
q = 1;
#1 q = 0;
$display(p);
end
The simulator is correct in displaying either a 1 or a 0. The assignment of 0 to q enables an update event for
p. The simulator may either continue and execute the $display task or execute the update for p, followed by
the $display task.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE
Std 1364-2005
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
161
11.6 Scheduling implication of assignments
Assignments are translated into processes and events as detailed in 11.6.1 through 11.6.7.
11.6.1 Continuous assignment
A continuous assignment statement (Clause 6) corresponds to a process, sensitive to the source elements in
the expression. When the value of the expression changes, it causes an active update event to be added to the
event queue, using current values to determine the target. A continuous assignment process is also evaluated
at time 0 to ensure that constant values are propagated. This includes implicit continuous assignments (see
11.6.6).
11.6.2 Procedural continuous assignment
A procedural continuous assignment (which is the assign or force statement; see 9.3) corresponds to a
process that is sensitive to the source elements in the expression. When the value of the expression changes,
it causes an active update event to be added to the event queue, using current values to determine the target.
A deassign or a release statement deactivates any corresponding assign or force statement(s).
11.6.3 Blocking assignment
A blocking assignment statement (see 9.2.1) with a delay computes the right-hand side value using the
current values, then causes the executing process to be suspended and scheduled as a future event. If the
delay is 0, the process is scheduled as an inactive event for the current time.
When the process is returned (or if it returns immediately if no delay is specified), the process performs the
assignment to the left-hand side and enables any events based upon the update of the left-hand side. The
values at the time the process resumes are used to determine the target(s). Execution may then continue with
the next sequential statement or with other active events.
11.6.4 Nonblocking assignment
A nonblocking assignment statement (see 9.2.2) always computes the updated value and schedules the
update as a nonblocking assign update event, either in this time step if the delay is zero or as a future event if
the delay is nonzero. The values in effect when the update is placed on the event queue are used to compute
both the right-hand value and the left-hand target.
11.6.5 Switch (transistor) processing
The event-driven simulation algorithm described in 11.4 depends on unidirectional signal flow and can
process each event independently. The inputs are read, the result is computed, and the update is scheduled.
The Verilog HDL provides switch-level modeling in addition to behavioral and gate-level modeling.
Switches provide bidirectional signal flow and require coordinated processing of nodes connected by
switches.
The Verilog HDL source elements that model switches are various forms of transistors, called tran, tranif0,
tranif1, rtran, rtranif0, and rtranif1.
Switch processing shall consider all the devices in a bidirectional switch-connected net before it can
determine the appropriate value for any node on the net because the inputs and outputs interact. A simulator
can do this using a relaxation technique. The simulator can process tran at any time. It can process a subset
of tran-connected events at a particular time, intermingled with the execution of other active events.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
162
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
Further refinement is required when some transistors have gate value x. A conceptually simple technique is
to solve the network repeatedly with these transistors set to all possible combinations of fully conducting
and nonconducting transistors. Any node that has a unique logic level in all cases has steady-state response
equal to this level. All other nodes have steady-state response x.
11.6.6 Port connections
Ports connect processes through implicit continuous assignment statements or implicit bidirectional
connections. Bidirectional connections are analogous to an always-enabled tran connection between the two
nets, but without any strength reduction. Port connection rules require that a value receiver be a net or a
structural net expression.
Ports can always be represented as declared objects connected as follows:
—
If an input port, then a continuous assignment from an outside expression to a local (input) net
—
If an output port, then a continuous assignment from a local output expression to an outside net
—
If an inout, then a nonstrength-reducing transistor connecting the local net to an outside net
Primitive terminals are different from module ports. Primitive output and inout terminals shall be connected
directly to 1-bit nets or 1-bit structural net expressions (see 12.3.9.2), with no intervening process that could
alter the strength. Changes from primitive evaluations are scheduled as active update events on the
connected nets. Input terminals connected to 1-bit nets or 1-bit structural net expressions are also connected
directly, with no intervening process that could affect the strength. Input terminals connected to other kinds
of expressions are represented as implicit continuous assignments from the expression to an implicit net that
is connected to the input terminal.
11.6.7 Functions and tasks
Task/function argument passing is by value, and it copies in on invocation and copies out on return. The
copy-out-on-the-return function behaves in the same manner as does any blocking assignment.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
