Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
1
IEEE Standard for Verilog®
Hardware Description Language
1. Overview
1.1 Scope
Verilog is a hardware description language (HDL) that was standardized as IEEE Std 1364™-1995 and first
revised as IEEE Std 1364-2001. This revision corrects and clarifies features ambiguously described in the
1995 and 2001 editions. It also resolves incompatibilities and inconsistencies of IEEE 1364-2001 with IEEE
Std 1800™-2005.
The intent of this standard is to serve as a complete specification of the Verilog HDL. This standard contains
the following:
—
The formal syntax and semantics of all Verilog HDL constructs
—
The formal syntax and semantics of standard delay format (SDF) constructs
—
Simulation system tasks and functions, such as text output display commands
—
Compiler directives, such as text substitution macros and simulation time scaling
—
The programming language interface (PLI) binding mechanism
—
The formal syntax and semantics of the Verilog procedural interface (VPI)
—
Informative usage examples
—
Informative delay model for SDF
—
The VPI header file
1.2 Conventions used in this standard
This standard is organized into clauses, each of which focuses on a specific area of the language. There are
subclauses within each clause to discuss individual constructs and concepts. The discussion begins with an
introduction and an optional rationale for the construct or the concept, followed by syntax and semantic
descriptions, followed by some examples and notes.
The term shall is used throughout this standard to indicate mandatory requirements, whereas the term may is
used to indicate optional features. These terms denote different meanings to different readers of this
standard:
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
2
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
a)
To the developers of tools that process the Verilog HDL, the term shall denotes a requirement that
the standard imposes. The resulting implementation is required to enforce the requirements and to
issue an error if the requirement is not met by the input.
b)
To the Verilog HDL model developer, the term shall denotes that the characteristics of the Verilog
HDL are natural consequences of the language definition. The model developer is required to adhere
to the constraint implied by the characteristic. The term may denotes optional features that the model
developer can exercise at discretion. If such features are used, however, the model developer is
required to follow the requirements set forth by the language definition.
c)
To the Verilog HDL model user, the term shall denotes that the characteristics of the models are nat-
ural consequences of the language definition. The model user can depend on the characteristics of
the model implied by its Verilog HDL source text.
1.3 Syntactic description
The formal syntax of the Verilog HDL is described using Backus-Naur Form (BNF). The following
conventions are used:
—
Lowercase words, some containing embedded underscores, are used to denote syntactic categories.
For example:
module_declaration
—
Boldface words are used to denote reserved keywords, operators, and punctuation marks as a
required part of the syntax. For example:
module      =>       ;
—
A vertical bar separates alternative items unless it appears in boldface, in which case it stands for
itself. For example:
unary_operator ::=
  + |  -  |  ! |  ~ |  & |   ~& |   |  |  ~|  |  ^  |  ~^ |  ^~
—
Square brackets enclose optional items. For example:
input_declaration ::= input [range]  list_of_variables ;
—
Braces ({}) enclose a repeated item unless it appears in boldface, in which case it stands for itself.
The item may appear zero or more times; the repetitions occur from left to right as with an
equivalent left-recursive rule. Thus, the following two rules are equivalent:
list_of_param_assignments ::= param_assignment  { , param_assignment }
list_of_param_assignments ::=
 param_assignment
| list_of_param_assignment , param_assignment
—
If the name of any category starts with an italicized part, it is equivalent to the category name
without the italicized part. The italicized part is intended to convey some semantic information. For
example, “msb_index” and “lsb_index” are equivalent to “index.”
The main text uses italicized font when a term is being defined and uses constant-width font for
examples, file names, and constants, especially 0, 1, x, and z values.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE
Std 1364-2005
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
3
1.4 Use of color in this standard
This standard uses a minimal amount of color to enhance readability. The coloring is not essential and does
not affect the accuracy of this standard when viewed in pure black and white. Color is used to show cross
references that are hyperlinked to other portions of this standard. These hyperlinked cross references are
shown in underlined-blue text (hyperlinking works when this standard is viewed interactively as a PDF file).
1.5 Contents of this standard
A synopsis of the clauses and annexes is presented as a quick reference. There are 28 clauses and 9 annexes.
All clauses, as well as Annex A, Annex B, and Annex G, are normative parts of this standard. Annex C,
Annex D, Annex H, and Annex I are included for informative purposes only.
IEEE Std 1364-2005 has deprecated the task/function (TF) and access (ACC) routines, which were specified
previously in Clause 21 through Clause 25, Annex E, and Annex F of IEEE Std 1364-20011. Clause 20 has
been modified to reflect this change. The text of deprecated clauses and annexes has been removed from this
version of the standard, but the clause headings have been retained. See the corresponding clauses in IEEE
Std 1364-2001 for the deprecated text.
Clause 1 discusses the conventions used in this standard and its contents.
Clause 2 lists references to other publications that are required in order to implement this standard.
Clause 3 describes the lexical tokens used in Verilog HDL source text and their conventions. It describes
how to specify and interpret the lexical tokens.
Clause 4 describes net and variable data types. This clause also discusses the parameter data type for
constant values and describes drive and charge strength of the values on nets.
Clause 5 describes the operators and operands that can be used in expressions.
Clause 6 compares the two main types of assignment statements in the Verilog HDL—continuous
assignments and procedural assignments. It describes the continuous assignment statement that drives values
onto nets.
Clause 7 describes the gate- and switch-level primitives and logic strength modeling.
Clause 8 describes how a primitive can be defined in the Verilog HDL and how these primitives are
included in Verilog HDL models.
Clause 9 describes procedural assignments, procedural continuous assignments, and behavioral language
statements.
Clause 10 describes tasks and functions—procedures that can be called from more than one place in a
behavioral model. It describes how tasks can be used like subroutines and how functions can be used to
define new operators. The clause describes how to disable the execution of a task and a named block of
statements.
Clause 11 describes the scheduling semantics of the Verilog HDL.
1For information on references, see Clause 2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
Std 1364-2005
IEEE STANDARD FOR VERILOG®
4
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
Clause 12 describes how hierarchies are created in the Verilog HDL and how parameter values declared in a
module can be overridden. It describes how generated constructs can be used to do conditional or multiple
instantiations in a design.
Clause 13 describes how to configure the contents of a design.
Clause 14 describes how to specify timing relationships between input and output ports of a module.
Clause 15 describes how timing checks are used in specify blocks to determine whether signals obey the
timing constraints.
Clause 16 describes syntax and semantics of SDF constructs.
Clause 17 describes the system tasks and functions.
Clause 18 describes the system tasks associated with value change dump (VCD) file and the format of the
file.
Clause 19 describes the compiler directives.
Clause 20 previews the C language procedural interface standard (i.e., PLI) and interface mechanisms that
are part of the Verilog HDL.
Clause 21 has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this clause.
Clause 22 has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this clause.
Clause 23 has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this clause.
Clause 24 has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this clause.
Clause 25 has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this clause.
Clause 26 provides an overview of the types of operations that are done with the VPI routines.
Clause 27 describes the VPI routines.
Clause 28 describes encryption and decryption of source text regions.
Annex A (normative) describes, using BNF, the syntax of the Verilog HDL.
Annex B (normative) lists the Verilog HDL keywords.
Annex C (informative) describes system tasks and functions that are frequently used, but that are not part of
this standard.
Annex D (informative) describes compiler directives that are frequently used, but that are not part of this
standard.
Annex E has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this annex.
Annex F has been deprecated. See IEEE Std 1364-2001 for the contents of this annex.
Annex G (normative) provides a listing of the contents of the vpi_user.h file.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE
HARDWARE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGE
Std 1364-2005
Copyright © 2006 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5
Annex H (informative) describes the various scenarios that can be used for intellectual property (IP)
protection, and it also shows how the relevant pragmas will be used to achieve the desired effect of securely
protecting, distributing, and decrypting the model.
Annex I (informative) contains bibliographic entries pertaining to this standard.
1.6 Deprecated clauses
IEEE Std 1364-2005 deprecates the Verilog PLI TF and ACC routines that were contained in previous
versions of this standard. These routines were described in Clause 21 through Clause 25, Annex E, and
Annex F. The text of these clauses and annexes have been removed from this version of the standard. The
text of these deprecated clauses and annexes can be found in IEEE Std 1364-2001.
1.7 Header file listings
The header file listings included in Annex G for vpi_user.h are a normative part of this standard. All
compliant software tools should use the same function declarations, constant definitions, and structure
definitions contained in these header file listings.
1.8 Examples
Several small examples in the Verilog HDL and the C programming language are shown throughout this
standard. These examples are informative. They are intended to illustrate the usage of Verilog HDL
constructs and PLI functions in a simple context and do not define the full syntax.
1.9 Prerequisites
Clause 20, Clause 26, Clause 27, and Annex G presuppose a working knowledge of the C programming
language.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Bucknell University. Downloaded on June 12,2014 at 13:56:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
