IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
605
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
Annex I
(informative) 
Glossary
For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. These and other terms within
IEEE standards are found in the IEEE Standards Dictionary Online available at: http://dictionary.ieee.org/.
An IEEE account is required for access to the dictionary, and one can be created at no charge on the
dictionary sign-in page.
This glossary contains brief, informal descriptions for a number of terms and phrases used to define this
language. The complete, formal definition of each term or phrase is provided in the main body of the
standard.
For each entry, the relevant clause or subclause numbers in the text are given. Some descriptions refer to
multiple clauses in which the single concept is discussed; for these, the clause number containing the
definition of the concept is given in italics. Other descriptions contain multiple clause numbers when they
refer to multiple concepts; for these, none of the clause numbers are italicized.
absolute design hierarchy search string: A search string provided to the vhpi_handle_by_name
function that represents the full name of an object in the design hierarchy information model. (23.22)
absolute library search string: A search string provided to the vhpi_handle_by_name function that
represents the full name of an object in the library information model. (23.22)
abstract class: A class that cannot be the most specialized class of any object. (17.2.1)
abstract literal: A literal of the universal_real abstract type or the universal_integer abstract type.
(15.3, 15.5.1)
access mode: The mode in which a file object is opened, which can be either read-only or write-only. The
access mode depends on the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter. (5.5.2, 16.3)
access type: A type that provides access to an object of a given type. Access to such an object is achieved by
an access value returned by an allocator; the access value is said to designate the object. (5.1, 5.4)
access value: A value of an access type. This value is returned by an allocator and designates an object
(which will be a variable) of a given type. A null access value designates no object. An access value can only
designate an object created by an allocator; it cannot designate an object declared by an object declaration.
(5.1, 5.4)
action callback: A callback whose trigger event relates to occurrence of phases of tool execution and other
aspects of tool execution. (21.3.7)
active driver: A driver that acquires a new value during a simulation cycle regardless of whether the new
value is different from the previous value. (14.7.3.1, 14.7.5)
actual: An expression, a port, a signal, a variable, a subtype, a subprogram, or a package associated with a
formal port, formal parameter, or formal generic. (5.3.2.2, 6.4.2.3, 6.5.6.2, 6.5.6.3, 6.5.7.1, 6.5.7.2, 6.5.7.3,
7.3.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
606
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
aggregate: (A) The kind of expression, denoting a value of a composite type. The value is specified by
giving the value of each of the elements of the composite type. Either a positional association or a named
association will be used to indicate which value is associated with which element. (B) A kind of target of a
variable assignment statement or signal assignment statement assigning a composite value. The target is
then said to be in the form of an aggregate. (9.3.2, 9.3.3, 9.3.5, 9.3.6, 9.4.3)
alias: An alternate name for a named entity. (6.6)
allocator: An operation used to create anonymous, variable objects accessible by means of access values.
(5.4, 9.3.7)
analysis: The syntactic and semantic analysis of source code in a VHDL design file and the insertion of
intermediate form representations of design units into a design library. (13.1, 13.2, 13.5)
analysis phase: That phase of tool execution in which analysis of a design file occurs. (Clause 13, 20.3)
anonymous: The undefined simple name of an item, which is created implicitly. The base type of a numeric
type or an array type is anonymous; similarly, the object denoted by an access value is anonymous. (6.2)
application context: The application context of a class specifies whether objects of the class may exist in
either or both of the library information model or the design hierarchy information model, and as a
consequence, when the object is accessible to VHPI programs. (19.18)
application name: An identifier that, jointly with an object library name, uniquely identifies a foreign
application. (20.2.2)
appropriate: A prefix is said to be appropriate for a type if the type of the prefix is the type considered, or if
the type of the prefix is an access type whose designated type is the type considered. (8.1)
architecture body: A body associated with an entity declaration to describe the internal organization or
operation of a design entity. An architecture body is used to describe the behavior, dataflow, or structure of
a design entity. (3, 3.3)
array object: An object of an array type. (Clause 5)
array type: A type, the value of which consists of elements that are all of the same subtype (and hence, of
the same type). Each element is uniquely distinguished by an index (for a one-dimensional array) or by a
sequence of indexes (for a multidimensional array). Each index will be a value of a discrete type and shall lie
in the correct index range. (5.3.2)
ascending range: A range L to R. (5.2.1)
ASCII: American Standard Code for Information Interchange. The package Standard contains the definition
of the type CHARACTER, the first 128 values of which represent the ASCII character set. (5.2.2.2, 16.3)
assertion violation: A violation that occurs when the condition of an assertion statement evaluates to false.
(10.3)
associated driver: The single driver for a signal in the (explicit or equivalent) process statement containing
the signal assignment statement. (14.7.2)
associated individually: A property of a formal port, generic constant, or parameter of a composite type
with respect to some association list. A composite formal whose association is defined by multiple
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
607
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
association elements in a single association list is said to be associated individually in that list. The formats
of such association elements will denote non-overlapping subelements or slices of the formal. (6.5.7.1)
associated in whole: When a single association element of a composite formal supplies the association for
the entire formal. (6.5.7.1)
association element: An element that associates an actual or local with a local or formal. (6.5.7.1)
association list: A list that establishes correspondences between formal or local port or parameter names
and local or actual names or expressions. (6.5.7.1)
association relationship: A relationship between objects in an information model that has semantic
significance. (17.2.1)
asymmetric cipher: A cipher requiring one key of a key pair for encryption of information and the other
key of the pair for decryption. The owner of the key pair keeps one key of the pair private (the private key)
and publishes the other key (the public key). (24.1.1, 24.1.3.2)
attribute: A definition of some characteristic of a named entity. Some attributes are predefined for types,
ranges, values, signals, and functions. The remaining attributes are user defined and are always constants.
(6.7)
based literal: An abstract literal expressed in a form that specifies the base explicitly. The base is restricted
to the range 2 to 16. (15.5.3)
base specifier: A lexical element that indicates whether a bit string literal is to be interpreted as a binary,
octal, decimal, or hexadecimal value. (15.8)
base type: The type from which a subtype defines a subset of possible values, otherwise known as a
constraint. This subset is not required to be proper. The base type of a type is the type itself. The base type of
a subtype is found by recursively examining the type mark in the subtype indication defining the subtype. If
the type mark denotes a type, that type is the base type of the subtype; otherwise, the type mark is a subtype,
and this procedure is repeated on that subtype (5.1). See also: subtype.
basic operation: An operation that is inherent in one of the following:
—
An assignment (in an assignment statement or initialization)
—
An allocator
—
A selected name, an indexed name, or a slice name
—
A qualification (in a qualified expression), an explicit type conversion, a formal or actual designator
in the form of a type conversion, or an implicit type conversion of a value of type universal_integer
or universal_real to the corresponding value of another numeric type, or
—
A numeric literal (for a universal type), the literal null (for an access type), a string literal, a bit string
literal, an aggregate, or a predefined attribute (5.1)
basic signal: A signal that determines the driving values for all other signals. A basic signal is
—
Either a scalar signal or a resolved signal
—
Not a subelement of a resolved signal
—
Not an implicit signal of the form S'STABLE(T), S'QUIET(T), or S'TRANSACTION, and
—
Not an implicit signal GUARD (14.7.3.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
608
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
belong: (A) (to a range): A property of a value with respect to some range. The value V is said to belong to
a range if the relations (lower bound <= V) and (V <= upper bound) are both true, where lower bound and
upper bound are the lower and upper bounds, respectively, of the range. (5.2.1, 5.3.2) (B) (to a subtype): A
property of a value with respect to some subtype. A value is said to belong to a subtype of a given type if it
belongs to the type and satisfies the applicable constraint. (5.1, 5.3.2)
binding: The process of associating a design entity and, optionally, an architecture with an instance of a
component. A binding can be specified in an explicit or a default binding indication. (3.4, 7.3.2, 7.3.3,
14.4.3.3, 14.5.4)
bit string literal: A literal formed by a sequence of extended digits enclosed between two quotation (")
characters and preceded by a base specifier. The type of a bit string literal is determined from the context.
(9.3.2, 15.8)
block: (A) The representation of a portion of the hierarchy of a design. A block is either an external block or
an internal block. (3.1, 3.3.2, 3.4.1, 3.4.2, 3.4.3, 6.5.6.2, 6.5.6.3) (B) The act of suspending the execution of
a process for the purposes of providing exclusive access to either a file object or an object of a protected
type. (5.5.2, 14.6)
bound: A label that is identified in the instantiation list of a configuration specification. (7.3.1)
box: (A) The symbol <> in an index subtype definition, which stands for an undefined range. Different
objects of the type need not have the same bounds and direction. (5.3.2.1) (B) The symbol <> as the
subprogram default in a formal generic subprogram declaration, and which stands for a subprogram with the
same name and parameter and result type profile as the formal subprogram visible at the place of
instantiation of the enclosing uninstantiated declaration. (6.5.4) (C) The symbol <> in an interface package
generic map aspect indicating that the actual instantiated package may have any actual generics. (6.5.5)
buffer: One possible mode. A port of mode buffer contributes its driving value to the network containing
the port; the design entity containing the port is also allowed to read its driving value. (6.5.2, 6.5.6.3)
bus: One kind of guarded signal. A bus floats to a user-specified value when all of its drivers are turned off.
(6.4.2.3, 6.5.2)
callback: A mechanism for a VHPI program to gain control during tool execution. (Clause 21)
callback data structure: A C struct of type vhpiCbDataT that specifies a callback. It is used to register a
callback and to acquire information about a callback and is passed to a callback function upon invocation of
the function. (21.2.2, 21.2.5, 21.2.6)
callback function: A function in a VHPI program, identified to the tool by registration, that is called by the
tool upon occurrence of a nominated trigger event. (21.1)
callback reason: A specification of an occurrence that may trigger invocation of a callback function. (21.1)
capability set: A permissible subset of the VHPI information model and functions provided by a tool. (17.3)
change: The current value of a signal of type T is said to change as the result of an update if and only if
application of the predefined “=” operator for type T to the current value of the signal and the value of the
signal prior to the update evaluates to FALSE. (14.7.3.4)
character literal: A literal of the CHARACTER type. Character literals are formed by enclosing one of the
graphic characters (including the space and nonbreaking space characters) between two apostrophe (')
characters. (15.3, 15.6)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
609
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
character type: An enumeration type with at least one of its enumeration literals as a character literal.
(5.2.2, 5.2.2.2)
chosen implementation: An implementation of floating-point types that conforms to IEEE Std 754-2019
and with a minimum representation size of 64 bits. (5.2.5.1)
cipher: An algorithm for encrypting and decrypting information. A cipher is either symmetric, requiring a
single secret key for both encryption and decryption, or asymmetric, requiring one key of a key pair for
encryption and the other key of the pair for decryption. (24.1.1, 24.1.3.2)
class: An abstract data type within an information model. (17.2.1)
closely related types: Two type marks that denote the same type or two numeric types. Two array types are
closely related if they have the same dimensionality and if the element types are closely related. Explicit
type conversion is only allowed between closely related types. (9.3.6)
comment: Informative text added to a description. (15.9)
complete: A loop that has finished executing. Similarly, an iteration scheme of a loop is complete when the
condition of a while iteration scheme is FALSE or all of the values of the discrete range of a for iteration
scheme have been assigned to the iteration parameter. (10.10)
complete context: A declaration, a specification, a statement, or, in certain cases, a discrete range or an
expression; complete contexts are used in overload resolution. (12.5)
composite type: A type whose values have elements. There are two classes of composite types: array types
and record types. (5.1, 5.3)
concurrent region: A block declarative region (including an external block and any block equivalent to a
generate statement), or a package declarative region (including a generic-mapped package equivalent to a
package instantiation) declared immediately within a concurrent region. (8.7)
concurrent statement: A statement that executes asynchronously, with no defined relative order.
Concurrent statements are used for dataflow and structural descriptions. (Clause 11)
configuration: A construct that defines how component instances in a given block are bound to design
entities in order to describe how design entities are put together to form a complete design. (3.1, 3.4. 7.3)
conforming profiles: Two subprogram declarations are said to have conforming profiles if and only if both
are procedures or both are functions, the parameter and result type profiles of the subprograms are the same
and, at each parameter position, the corresponding parameters have the same class and mode. (4.10)
connected: A formal port associated with an actual port or signal. A formal port associated with the
reserved word open is said to be unconnected. (6.5.6.3)
constant: An object whose value cannot be changed. Constants are either explicitly declared, subelements
of explicitly declared constants, or interface constants. Constants declared in packages can also be deferred
constants. (6.4.2.2)
constraint: A subset of the values of a type. The set of possible values for an object of a given type that can
be subjected to a condition is called a constraint. A value is said to satisfy the constraint if it satisfies the
corresponding condition. There are index constraints and range constraints. (5.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
610
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
contributor: A contributor of a given signal is a driver, signal, expression, or conversion whose value
determines the value of the given signal. (19.12.2)
conversion function: A function used to convert values flowing through associations. For interface objects
of mode in, conversion functions are allowed only on actuals. For interface objects of mode out or buffer,
conversion functions are allowed only on formals. For interface objects of mode inout or linkage,
conversion functions are allowed on both formals and actuals. Conversion functions have a single
parameter. A conversion function associated with an actual accepts the type of the actual and returns the
type of the formal. A conversion function associated with a formal accepts the type of the formal and returns
the type of the actual. (6.5.7.1)
convertible: A property of an operand with respect to some type. An operand is convertible to some type if
there exists an implicit conversion to that type. (9.3.6)
current value: The value component of the single transaction of a driver whose time component is not
greater than the current simulation time. (14.7.1, 14.7.2, 14.7.3. 14.7.4)
decimal literal: An abstract literal that is expressed in decimal notation. The base of the literal is implicitly
10. The literal may optionally contain an exponent or a decimal point and fractional part. (15.5.2)
declaration: A construct that defines a declared entity and associates an identifier (or some other notation)
with it. This association is in effect within a region of text that is called the scope of the declaration. Within
the scope of a declaration, there are places where it is possible to use the identifier to refer to the associated
declared entity; at such places, the identifier is said to be the simple name of the named entity. The simple
name is said to denote the associated named entity. (Clause 6)
declarative part: A syntactic component of certain declarations or statements (such as entity declarations,
architecture bodies, and block statements). The declarative part defines the lexical area (usually introduced
by a reserved word such as is and terminated with another reserved word such as begin) within which
declarations may occur. (3.2.3, 3.3.2, 3.4.1, 4.8, 11.2, 11.3, 11.7.2, 11.7.3)
declarative region: A semantic component of certain declarations or statements. Certain declarative regions
include disjoint parts; for example, the declarative region of a package declaration, which, if there is an
associated package body, extends to the end of that package body. (12.1)
decorate: To associate a user-defined attribute with a named entity and to define the value of that attribute.
(7.2)
decryption envelope: A collection of protect tool directives that specify ciphers and keys used to decrypt a
portion of a VHDL description. The decryption envelope also contains the encoded encrypted portion of the
VHDL description. (24.1.5)
decryption tool: A tool that processes decryption envelopes in a VHDL description to yield the original
source text. The decryption tool may perform subsequent analysis and interpretation of the description, but
will not disclose the decrypted text to the user of the tool. (24.1.5)
default expression: A default value that is used for a formal generic constant, port, or parameter if the
interface object is unassociated. A default expression is also used to provide an initial value for signals and
their drivers. (6.4.2.3, 6.5.7)
deferred constant: A constant that is declared without an assignment symbol (:=) and expression in a
package declaration. A corresponding full declaration of the constant will exist in the package body to
define the value of the constant. (6.4.2.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
611
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
delimited comment: A comment that starts with a solidus (slash) character immediately followed by an
asterisk character and extends up to the first subsequent occurrence of an asterisk character immediately
followed by a solidus character. (15.9)
delta cycle: A simulation cycle in which the simulation time at the beginning of the cycle is the same as at
the end of the cycle. That is, simulation time is not advanced in a delta cycle. Only nonpostponed processes
can be executed during a delta cycle. (14.7.5.1)
denote: A property of the identifier given in a declaration. Where the declaration is visible, the identifier
given in the declaration is said to denote the named entity declared in the declaration. (6.1)
depend: (A) (on a library unit): A design unit that explicitly or implicitly mentions other library units in a
use clause. These dependencies affect the allowed order of analysis of design units. (13.5) (B) (on a signal
value): A property of a signal with respect to some other signal. The current value of an implicit signal R is
said to depend on the current value of another signal S if R denotes an implicit signal S'STABLE(T),
S'QUIET(T), or S'TRANSACTION, or if R denotes an implicit GUARD signal and S is any other implicit
signal named within the guard condition that defines the current value of R. The current value of an interface
signal R is said to depend on the current value of an implicit signal S if R denotes a port of mode in and S is
the actual associated with that port. (14.7.4)
deposit: An update of the current value of a variable other than by assignment, of a driver other than by
advancement of a transaction to the first position in the driver’s projected output waveform, or of a signal
other than resulting from update of other parts of the net of which the signal is a part. A deposited value
remains only until a subsequent update of the variable, driver, or signal. (14.7.2, 14.7.3, 22.5.2, 22.5.3,
22.5.4)
descending range: A range L downto R. (5.2.1)
design entity: An entity declaration together with an associated architecture body. Different design entities
may share the same entity declaration, thus describing different components with the same interface or
different views of the same component. (3.1)
design file: One or more design units in sequence. (13.1)
design hierarchy: The complete representation of a design that results from the successive decomposition
of a design entity into subcomponents and binding of those components to other design entities that may be
decomposed in a similar manner. (3.1)
design hierarchy information model: The information model that represents the elaborated VHDL model.
(17.2.1)
design library: A host-dependent storage facility for intermediate-form representations of analyzed design
units (13.2)
design unit: A construct that can be independently analyzed and stored in a design library. A design unit is
either an entity declaration, an architecture body, a configuration declaration, a package declaration, a
package body, a package instantiation declaration, a context declaration, or a PSL verification unit. (13.1)
designate: A property of access values that relates the value to some object when the access value is
non-null. A non-null access value is said to designate an object. (5.4.1)
designated type: For an access type, the base type of the subtype defined by the subtype indication of the
access type definition. (5.4)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
612
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
designated subtype: For an access type, the subtype defined by the subtype indication of the access type
definition. (5.4.1)
designated type: For an access type, the base type of the subtype defined by the subtype indication of the
access type definition. (5.4.1)
designator: (A) Syntax that forms part of an association element. A formal designator specifies which
formal parameter, port, or generic (or which subelement or slice of a parameter, port, or generic) is to be
associated with an actual by the given association element. An actual designator specifies which actual
expression, signal, variable, subtype, subprogram, or package is to be associated with a formal (subelements
of a formal). An actual designator may also specify that the formal in the given association element is to be
left unassociated (with an actual designator of open). (6.5.7.1) (B) An identifier, character literal, or operator
symbol that defines an alias for some other name. (6.6.1) (C) A simple name that denotes a predefined or
user-defined attribute in an attribute name, or a user-defined attribute in an attribute specification (7.2, 8.6)
(D) A simple name, character literal, or operator symbol, and possibly a signature, that denotes a named
entity in the entity name list of an attribute specification. (7.2) (E) An identifier or operator symbol that
defines the name of a subprogram. (4.2.1) (F) An identifier, character literal, or operator symbol associated
with a named entity by a declaration. (6.1)
digest: A summary of information, computed using a hash function. (24.1.1)
digital envelope: An encryption scheme in which information is encrypted using a symmetric cipher with a
session key chosen by an encryption tool, and then the session key is encrypted. Decryption of the protected
envelope involves first decrypting the session key, followed by decrypting the information with the
symmetric cipher using the decrypted session key. (24.1.1)
digital signature: A scheme that allows verification that information is received unaltered from the
originator of the information. The originator computes a digest of the information using a hash function and
encrypts the digest with an asymmetric cipher using the private key of a key pair. The recipient decrypts the
digest using the public key of the originator, recomputes the digest by applying the hash function to the
received information, and compares the two digests. If they differ, the received information differs from the
originator’s information. (24.1.1)
directly visible: A visible declaration that is not visible by selection. A declaration is directly visible within
its immediate scope, excluding any places where the declaration is hidden. A declaration occurring
immediately within the visible part of a package can be made directly visible by means of a use clause. (12.3
and 12.4) See also: visible.
disabled callback: A callback for which the callback function will not be called if the trigger event occurs.
(21.1)
discrete array: A one-dimensional array whose elements are of a discrete type. (9.2.3)
discrete range: A range whose bounds are of a discrete type. (5.3.2.1, 5.3.2.2)
discrete type: An enumeration type or an integer type. Each value of a discrete type has a position number
that is an integer value. Indexing and iteration rules use values of discrete types. (5.2.1)
don’t care value: The enumeration literal '–' of the type STD_ULOGIC defined in the package
STD_LOGIC_1164. (16.8.2.2)
driver: A container for a projected output waveform of a signal. The value of the signal is a function of the
current values of its drivers. Each process that assigns to a given signal implicitly contains a driver for that
signal. A signal assignment statement affects only the associated driver(s). (14.5.5, 14.7.2, 14.7.3, 14.7.4)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
613
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
driving value: The value a signal provides as a source of other signals. (14.7.3)
driving-value forced signal: A signal whose driving value is set to a given value and cannot be changed by
a deposit or update of other parts of the net of which the signal is a part. (14.7.3.2, 22.5.3)
dynamic object: An object in an information model that, once created, may cease to exist at a later time
during execution of the tool. (17.2.1)
effective value: The value obtained by evaluating a reference to the signal within an expression. (14.7.3)
effective-value forced signal: A signal whose effective value is set to a given value and cannot be changed
by a deposit or update of other parts of the net of which the signal is a part. (14.7.3.3, 22.5.3)
elaboration: The process by which a declaration achieves its effect. Prior to the completion of its
elaboration (including before the elaboration), a declaration is not yet elaborated. (Clause 14)
elaboration function: A function in a foreign architecture that performs elaboration of the foreign
architecture. (20.4.1)
elaboration phase: That phase of tool execution in which static elaboration of a design hierarchy occurs.
(14.2, 20.4)
element: A constituent of a composite type. (5.1) See also: subelement.
enabled callback: A callback for which the callback function will be called if the trigger event occurs.
(21.1)
encoding method: An algorithm that transforms the octets of information into graphic characters so that the
information can be stored or transmitted without being altered by agents that interpret nongraphic
characters. (24.1.1, 24.1.3.1)
encryption envelope: A collection of protect tool directives that specify ciphers and keys used to encrypt an
enclosed portion of a VHDL description. (24.1.4)
encryption tool: A tool that processes encryption envelopes in a VHDL description and produces a VHDL
description containing the corresponding decryption envelopes. (24.1.4)
entity declaration: A definition of the interface between a given design entity and the environment in which
it is used. It may also specify declarations and statements that are part of the design entity. A given entity
declaration may be shared by many design entities, each of which has a different architecture. Thus, an
entity declaration can potentially represent a class of design entities, each with the same interface. (3.1, 3.2)
enumeration literal: A literal of an enumeration type. An enumeration literal is either an identifier or a
character literal. (5.2.2.1, 9.3.2)
enumeration type: A type whose values are defined by listing (enumerating) them. The values of the type
are represented by enumeration literals. (5.2.1, 5.2.2)
erroneous: An error condition that cannot always be detected. (1.3.3)
error: A condition that makes the source description illegal. If an error is detected at the time of analysis of
a design unit, it prevents the creation of a library unit for the given design unit. A runtime error causes
simulation to terminate. (1.3.3, 13.5)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
614
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
error information structure: A C struct of type vhpiErrorInfoT that represents error information
provided by the tool to a VHPI program upon occurrence of an error. (23.3)
event: A change in the current value of a signal, which occurs when the signal is updated with its effective
value. (14.7.3.4)
execute: (A) When first the design hierarchy of a model is elaborated, then its nets are initialized, and finally
simulation proceeds with repetitive execution of the simulation cycle, during which processes are executed
and nets are updated. (B) When a process performs the actions specified by the algorithm described in its
statement part. (Clause 14, 14.7)
execution function: A function in a foreign model that performs initialization (in the case of a foreign
architecture) or dynamic elaboration (in the case of a foreign subprogram). (20.4.2, 20.5)
expanded name: A selected name (in the syntactic sense) that denotes one or all of the primary units in a
library or any named entity within a primary unit. (8.3, 10.2) See also: selected name.
explicit ancestor: The parent of the implicit signal that is defined by the predefined attributes 'DELAYED,
'QUIET, 'STABLE, or 'TRANSACTION. It is determined using the prefix of the attribute. If the prefix
denotes an explicit signal or a slice, or subelement (or member thereof), then that is the explicit ancestor of
the implicit signal. If the prefix is one of the implicit signals defined by the predefined attributes
'DELAYED, 'QUIET, 'STABLE, or 'TRANSACTION, this rule is applied recursively. If the prefix is an
implicit signal GUARD, the signal has no explicit ancestor. (4.3)
explicit signal: A signal, other than those defined by the predefined attributes 'DELAYED, 'QUIET,
'STABLE, 'TRANSACTION, any implicit signal GUARD, or their slices, subelements, or slices of their
subelements. A slice, subelement, or a slice of a subelment of an explicit signal is also an explicit signal.
(4.3)
explicitly declared constant: A constant of a specified type that is declared by a constant declaration.
(6.4.2.2)
explicitly declared object: An object of a specified type that is declared by an object declaration. An object
declaration is called a single-object declaration if its identifier list has a single identifier; it is called a
multiple-object declaration if the identifier list has two or more identifiers. (6.4.1, 6.4.2) See also: implicitly
declared object.
expression: A formula that defines the computation of a value. (9.1)
extend: A property of source text forming a declarative region with disjoint parts. In a declarative region
with disjoint parts, if a portion of text is said to extend from some specific point of a declarative region to the
end of the region, then this portion is the corresponding subset of the declarative region (and does not
include intermediate declarative items between an interface declaration and a corresponding body
declaration). (12.1)
extended digit: A lexical element that is either a digit or a letter. (15.5.3)
external block: A top-level design entity that resides in a library and may be used as a component in other
designs. (3.1)
file type: A type that provides access to objects containing a sequence of values of a given type. File types
are typically used to access files in the host system environment. The value of a file object is the sequence of
values contained in the host system file. (5.1, 5.5)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
615
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
floating-point types: A scalar type whose values approximate real numbers. The representation of a
floating-point type conforms to IEEE Std 754-2019 and has a minimum size of 64 bits. (5.2.1, 5.2.5)
forced driver: A driver whose current value is set to a given value and cannot be changed by a deposit or a
transaction becoming the first transaction in the driver’s projected output waveform. (14.7.2, 22.5.4)
forced variable: A variable whose value is set to a given value and cannot be changed by a deposit or
assignment. (10.6.2.1, 22.5.2)
foreign application: A VHPI program other than a foreign model. (20.1)
foreign model: A design entity whose architecture is decorated with the 'FOREIGN attribute in the form of
a standard indirect binding or a standard direct binding, or a subprogram similarly decorated. (20.1)
foreign model callback: A callback that allows a foreign model to achieve an effect similar to that of a wait
statement, by being triggered after a timeout or upon an event on one or more signals. (21.3.3)
foreign subprogram: A subprogram that is decorated with the attribute 'FOREIGN, defined in package
STANDARD. The STRING value of the attribute may specify implementation-dependent information about
the foreign subprogram. Foreign subprograms may have non-VHDL implementations. An implementation
may place restrictions on the allowable modes, classes, and types of the formal parameters to a foreign
subprogram, such as constraints on the number and allowable order of the parameters. (4.3)
formal: A formal port or formal generic of a design entity, a block statement, or a formal parameter of a
subprogram. (4.2.2, 6.5.7.1, 6.5.7.2, 6.5.7.3, 11.2)
format: The format of a value structure specifies how the value is represented. (22.2.8)
full declaration: A constant declaration occurring in a package body with the same identifier as that of a
deferred constant declaration in the corresponding package declaration. (4.8)
full type declaration: A type declaration corresponding to an incomplete type declaration.
fully bound: A binding indication for the component instance implies an entity declaration and an
architecture. (7.3.2.2)
generate parameter: A constant object whose type is the base type of the discrete range of a generate
parameter specification. A generate parameter is declared by a generate statement. (11.8)
generic: An interface declaration in the block header of a block statement, a component declaration, or an
entity declaration, in the package header of a package declaration, in the subprogram header of a
subprogram specification, or in the protected type header of a protected type declaration. Generics provide a
channel for static information to be communicated to a block, a package, a subprogram or a protected type
from its environment. Unlike explicit declarations, a generic’s value can be supplied externally.
generic interface list: A list that defines local or formal generics. (6.5.6.1, 6.5.6.2)
generic-mapped package: A package declared by a package declaration containing a generic clause and a
generic map aspect. A generic-mapped package may be declared explicitly or may be equivalent to a
package instantiation. (4.7, 4.9)
generic-mapped protected type: A protected type declared by a protected type declaration containing a
generic list and a generic map aspect. A generic-mapped protected type may be declared explicitly, or may
be equivalent to a protected type instantiation (5.6.2).
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
616
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
generic-mapped subprogram: A subprogram declared by a subprogram declaration containing a generic
list and a generic map aspect. A generic-mapped subprogram may be declared explicitly or may be
equivalent to a subprogram instantiation. (4.2.1, 4.4)
globally static expression: An expression that can be evaluated as soon as the design hierarchy in which it
appears is elaborated. A locally static expression is also globally static unless the expression appears in a
dynamically elaborated context. (9.4.1)
globally static primary: A primary whose value can be determined during the elaboration of its complete
context and that does not thereafter change. Globally static primaries can only appear within statically
elaborated contexts. (9.4.3)
group: A named collection of named entities. Groups relate different named entities for the purposes not
specified by the language. In particular, groups may be decorated with attributes. (6.9, 6.10)
guard: See: guard condition.
guard condition: A Boolean-valued expression associated with a block statement that controls assignments
to guarded signals within the block. A guard condition defines an implicit signal GUARD that may be used
to control the operation of certain statements within the block. (6.4.2.3, 11.2, 11.6)
guarded assignment: A concurrent signal assignment statement that includes the reserved word guarded,
which specifies that the signal assignment statement is executed when a signal GUARD changes from
FALSE to TRUE, or when that signal has been TRUE and an event occurs on one of the signals referenced
in the corresponding GUARD condition. The signal GUARD will be one of the implicitly declared GUARD
signals associated with block statements that have guard conditions, or it will be an explicitly declared signal
of type BOOLEAN that is visible at the point of the concurrent signal assignment statement. (11.6)
guarded signal: A signal declared as a register or a bus. Such signals have special semantics when their
drivers are updated from within guarded signal assignment statements. (6.4.2.3)
guarded target: A signal assignment target consisting only of guarded signals. An unguarded target is a
target consisting only of unguarded signals. (11.6)
handle: An opaque reference to an object in the VHPI information model. (17.4.1)
hash function: A function that produces a summary of information. The likelihood of two different pieces
of information yielding the same summary is negligible. Moreover, the original information cannot be
determined from the summary. (24.1.1, 24.1.3.3)
hidden: A declaration that is not directly visible. A declaration is hidden in its scope by a homograph of the
declaration. (12.3)
high-impedance value: The enumeration literal 'Z' of the type STD_ULOGIC defined in the package
STD_LOGIC_1164. (16.8.2.2)
homograph: A reflexive property of two declarations. Each of two declarations is said to be a homograph
of the other if both declarations have the same identifier and overloading is allowed for at most one of the
two. If overloading is allowed for both declarations, then each of the two is a homograph of the other if they
have the same identifier, operator symbol, or character literal, as well as the same parameter and result type
profile. (4.5.1, 12.3)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
617
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
identify: A property of a name appearing in an element association of an assignment target in the form of an
aggregate. The name is said to identify a signal or variable and any subelements of that signal or variable.
(10.5.2.1, 10.6.2.1)
immediate scope: A property of a declaration with respect to the declarative region within which the
declaration immediately occurs. The immediate scope of the declaration extends from the beginning of the
declaration to the end of the declarative region. (12.2)
immediately within: A property of a declaration with respect to some declarative region. A declaration is
said to occur immediately within a declarative region if this region is the innermost region that encloses the
declaration, not counting the declarative region (if any) associated with the declaration itself. (12.1)
implicit label: Where a statement omits a label, an implicit label is used to construct name properties for the
statement. The implicit label is determined by the statement’s position in the immediately enclosing
statement part. (19.4.2)
implicitly declared object: An object whose declaration is not explicit in the source description, but is a
consequence of other constructs; for example, signal GUARD. (6.4.1, 11.2, 16.2) See also: explicitly
declared object.
implicit signal: Any signal S'STABLE(T), S'QUIET(T), S'DELAYED(T), or S'TRANSACTION, or any
implicit GUARD signal. A slice  (or slice thereof) of an implicit signal is also an implicit signal.
(14.7.3, 14.7.4, 14.7.5)
imply: A property of a binding indication in a configuration specification with respect to the design entity
indicated by the binding indication. The binding indication is said to imply the design entity; the design
entity is indicated directly, indirectly, or by default. (7.3.2.2)
impure function: A function that may return a different value each time it is called, even when different
calls have the same actual parameter values. A pure function returns the same value each time it is called
using the same values as actual parameters. An impure function can update objects outside of its scope and
can access a broader class of values than a pure function. (4.1)
in: One possible mode of a port or subprogram parameter; also, the only allowed mode of a generic constant.
A port of mode in may be read within the design entity containing the port but does not contribute a driving
value to the network containing the port. A subprogram parameter of mode in may be read but not modified
by the containing subprogram. (4.2.2, 6.5.2, 6.5.6.2, 6.5.6.3)
incremental binding: A binding indication in a configuration declaration that either re-associates a
previously associated local generic constant or that associates a previously unassociated local port is said to
incrementally rebind the component instance or instances to which the binding indication applies. (7.3.2.1)
index constraint: A constraint that determines the index range for every index of an array type, and thereby
the bounds of the array. An index constraint is compatible with an array type if and only if the constraint
defined by each discrete range in the index constraint is compatible with the corresponding index subtype in
the array type. An array value satisfies an index constraint if the array value and the index constraint have
the same index range at each index position. (5.2.1, 5.3.2.2)
index range: A multidimensional array has a distinct element for each possible sequence of index values
that can be formed by selecting one value for each index (in the given order). The possible values for a given
index are all the values that belong to the corresponding range. This range of values is called the index
range. (5.3.2.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
618
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
index subtype: For a given index position of an array, the index subtype is denoted by the type mark of the
corresponding index subtype definition. (5.3.2.1)
inertial delay: A delay model used for switching circuits; a pulse whose duration is shorter than the
switching time of the circuit will not be transmitted. Inertial delay is the default delay mode for signal
assignment statements. (10.5.2.1) See also: transport delay.
information model: An abstract representation of the topology and state of a VHDL model. (17.2.1)
inheritance relationship: A relationship between a subclass and a superclass whereby the subclass
implicitly has all of the properties, operations, and associations of the superclass. The relationship may be
directly between a subclass and a superclass or indirectly through one or more intermediate superclasses.
(17.2.1)
initial value expression: An expression that specifies the initial value to be assigned to a variable. (6.4.2.4)
initialization phase: That phase of tool execution in which initialization of an elaborated design hierarchy
occurs. (14.7.5.2, 20.5)
inout: One possible mode of a port or subprogram parameter. A port of mode inout may be read within the
design entity containing the port and also contributes a driving value to the network containing the port. A
subprogram parameter of mode inout may be both read and modified by the containing subprogram.
(4.2.2.1, 6.5.2, 6.5.6.3)
inputs: The signals identified by the longest static prefix of each signal name appearing as a primary in each
expression (other than time expressions) within a concurrent signal assignment statement. (11.6)
instance: A subcomponent of a design entity whose prototype is a component declaration, design entity, or
configuration declaration. Each instance of a component may have different actuals associated with its local
ports and generics. A component instantiation statement whose instantiated unit denotes a component
creates an instance of the corresponding component. A component instantiation statement whose
instantiated unit denotes either a design entity or a configuration declaration creates an instance of the
denoted design entity. (11.7.1, 11.7.2, 11.7.3)
integer literal: An abstract literal of the type universal_integer that does not contain a base point. (15.5.1)
integer type: A discrete scalar type whose values represent integer numbers within a specified range.
(5.2.1, 5.2.3)
interface list: A list that declares the interface objects required by a subprogram, component, design entity,
or block statement. (6.5.6)
internal block: A nested block in a design unit, as defined by a block statement. (3.1)
invalid handle: A handle that previously referred to an object that subsequently ceased to exist. (17.4.5)
ISO: International Organization for Standardization.
ISO/IEC 8859-1: The ISO Latin-1 character set. Package STANDARD contains the definition of type
CHARACTER, which represents the ISO Latin-1 character set. (5.2.2.2, 16.3)
kernel process: A conceptual representation of the agent that coordinates the activity of user-defined
processes during a simulation. The kernel process causes the execution of I/O operations, the propagation of
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
619
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
signal values, and the updating of values of implicit signals [such as S'STABLE(T)]; in addition, it detects
events that occur and causes the appropriate processes to execute in response to those events. (14.7.1)
left bound: For a range L to R or L downto R, the value L. (5.2.1)
left of: When both a value V1 and a value V2 belong to a range and either the range is an ascending range
and V2 is the successor of V1, or the range is a descending range and V2 is the predecessor of V1. (5.2.1)
left-to-right order: When each value in a list of values is to the left of the next value in the list within that
range, except for the last value in the list. (5.2.1)
lexically conform: Two subprogram specifications are said to lexically conform if, apart from certain
allowed minor variations, both specifications are formed by the same sequence of lexical elements, and
corresponding lexical elements are given the same meaning by the visibility rules. Lexical conformance is
defined similarly for deferred constant declarations. (4.10)
library: See: design library.
library information model: The information model that represents the design units that comprise a VHDL
model after analysis and prior to elaboration. (17.2.1)
library unit: The representation in a design library of an analyzed design unit. (13.1)
lifetime of an object: The duration of existence of the object in the VHPI information model. (17.4.5)
linkage: One possible port mode. A design entity whose entity interface contains a port of mode linkage
implies that the behavior of the design entity is not expressed in terms of VHDL semantics. (6.5.2, 6.5.6.3)
literal: A value that is directly specified in the description of a design. A literal can be a bit string literal,
enumeration literal, numeric literal, string literal, or the literal null. (9.3.2)
load: A load of a given signal is a process, port, signal, or conversion whose value depends on the value of
the given signal. (19.12.2)
local contributor: A contributor defined by a VHDL model or created using the vhpi_create function,
prior to any optimization of the representation of contributors and loads of a net. (19.12.2)
local generic: An interface declaration in a component declaration that serves to connect a formal generic in
the interface list of an entity and an actual generic, value, subtype, subprogram, or package in the design unit
instantiating that entity. (6.4.1, 6.5.7, 6.8)
local load: A load defined by a VHDL model, prior to any optimization of the representation of contributors
and loads of a net. (19.12.2)
locally static expression: An expression that can be evaluated during the analysis of the design unit in
which it appears. (9.4.1, 9.4.2)
locally static name: A name in which every expression is locally static (if every discrete range that appears
as part of the name denotes a locally static range or subtype and if no prefix within the name is either an
object or value of an access type or a function call). (8.1)
locally static primary: One of a certain group of primaries that includes literals, certain constants, and
certain attributes. (9.4.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
620
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
locally static subtype: A subtype whose bounds and direction can be determined during the analysis of the
design unit in which it appears. (9.4.2)
local port: A signal declared in the interface list of a component declaration that serves to connect a formal
port in the interface list of an entity and an actual port or signal in the design unit instantiating that entity.
(6.4.1, 6.5.7, 6.8)
longest static prefix: The name of a signal or a variable name, if the name is a static signal or variable
name. Otherwise, the longest static prefix is the longest prefix of the name that is a static signal or variable
name. (8.1) See also: static signal name.
loop parameter: A constant, implicitly declared by the for clause of a loop statement, used to count the
number of iterations of a loop. (10.10)
lower bound: The left bound of an ascending range or the right bound of a descending range. (5.2.1)
match: A property of a signature with respect to the parameter and subtype profile of a subprogram or
enumeration literal. The signature is said to match the parameter and result type profile if certain conditions
are true. (4.5.3)
matching case statement: A case statement that includes the question mark delimiter, in which choices are
compared with the expression using the “?=” operator. (10.9)
matching elements: Corresponding elements of two composite type values that are used for certain logical
and relational operations. (9.2.3)
matching index value: In an element association with a choice that is a discrete range and an expression of
the type of the aggregate, the index value in the range that corresponds to a given element of the expression
value. (9.3.3.3)
mature callback: A one-time callback whose trigger event has occurred. (21.1)
member: A slice of an object, a subelement, or an object; or a slice of a subelement of an object. (5.1)
metalogical value:  One of the enumeration literals 'U', 'X', 'W' or '–' of the type STD_ULOGIC defined in
the package STD_LOGIC_1164. (16.8.2.2)
method: An abstract operation that operates atomically and exclusively on a single object of a protected
type. (5.6.2)
mode: The direction of information flow through the port or parameter. Modes are in, out, inout, buffer, or
linkage. (6.5.2, 6.5.6.3)
mode view declaration: A declaration of the modes of the individual elements of a composite interface
object. A mode view is associated with a composite type or subtype. There may be more than one mode
view associated with a given composite type or subtype (6.5.2, 6.5.3)
model: The result of the elaboration of a design hierarchy. The model can be executed in order to simulate
the design it represents. (14.1, 14.7)
model name: An identifier that, jointly with an object library name, uniquely identifies a foreign model.
(20.2.2)
modified relative search string: A relative search string modified by the insertion of signatures. (23.22)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
621
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
most specialized class: That class of which a given object is a member and for which there is no subclass of
which the object is also a member. (17.2.1)
multiplicity: The number of permissible target objects of a navigable association. Multiplicities may be 0..1
or 1 for a one-to-one association or 0..* or 1..* for one-to-many associations. (19.2.1)
name: A property of an identifier with respect to some named entity. Each form of declaration associates an
identifier with a named entity. In certain places within the scope of a declaration, it is valid to use the
identifier to refer to the associated named entity; these places are defined by the visibility rules. At such
places, the identifier is said to be the name of the named entity. (6.1, 8.1)
named association: An association element in which the formal designator appears explicitly.
(6.5.7.1, 9.3.3.1)
named entity: An item associated with an identifier, character literal, or operator symbol as the result of an
explicit or implicit declaration. (6.1) See also: name.
navigable: An association in the information model is navigable from a reference object to a target object if
it is permissible to acquire a handle for the target object using the vhpi_handle function (for a one-to-one
association) or the vhpi_iterator function (for a one-to-many association) with a handle to the
reference object. (19.2.1)
net: A collection of drivers, signals (including ports and implicit signals), conversion functions, and
resolution functions that connect different processes. Initialization of a net occurs after elaboration, and a net
is updated during each simulation cycle. (14.1, 14.2, 14.7.3.4)
nonobject alias: An alias whose designator denotes some named entity other than an object. (6.6.1, 6.6.2)
See also: object alias.
nonpostponed process: An explicit or implicit process whose source statement does not contain the
reserved word postponed. When a nonpostponed process is resumed, it executes in the current simulation
cycle. Thus, nonpostponed processes have access to the current values of signals, whether or not those
values are stable at the current model time. (11.3)
null array: Any of the discrete ranges in the index constraint of an array that define a null range. (5.3.2.2)
null range: A range that specifies an empty subset of values. A range L to R is a null range if L > R, and
range L downto R is a null range if L < R. (5.2.1)
null slice: A slice whose discrete range is a null range. (8.5)
null transaction: A transaction produced by evaluating a null waveform element. (10.5.2.2)
null waveform element: A waveform element that is used to turn off a driver of a guarded signal. (10.5.2.2)
numeric literal: An abstract literal or a literal of a physical type. (9.3.2)
numeric type: An integer type, a floating-point type, or a physical type. (5.2.1)
object: (A) A named entity that has a value of a given type. An object can be a constant, signal, variable, or
file. (6.4.1) (B) An instance of a class in an information model. An object is also an instance of each
superclass of the class. (17.2.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
622
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
object alias: An alias whose alias designator denotes an object (that is, a constant, signal, variable, or file).
(6.6.1, 6.6.1) See also: nonobject alias.
object callback: A callback whose trigger event relates to the value of a variable or a signal, represented by
a trigger object. (21.3.2)
object library: An implementation-defined library containing one or more entry points for elaboration,
execution or registration functions. (20.2.2)
one-time callback: A callback for which the callback function is triggered at most once. (21.1)
one-to-many association: An association in which one reference object is associated with possibly more
than one target object. (17.2.1)
one-to-one association: An association in which one reference object is associated with at most one target
object. (17.2.1)
operation: A function that pertains to a given object or class in an information model. (17.2.1)
optimized contributor: A contributor resulting from an implementation-defined optimization of the
representation of contributors and loads of a net. (19.12.2)
optimized load: A load resulting from an implementation-defined optimization of the representation of
contributors and loads of a net. (19.12.2)
ordered: A constraint upon a one-to-many association that indicates that an ordering relation applies to the
target objects of the association. (19.2.1)
ordinary case statement: A case statement that does not include the question mark delimiter, in which
choices are compared with the expression using the “=” operator. (10.9)
out: One possible mode of a port or subprogram parameter. A port of mode out contributes a driving value
to the network containing the port; the design entity containing the port may also read the port. A
subprogram parameter of mode out can be modified, and, if it is a variable, its value can be read by the
containing subprogram. The value read is the current value of the formal parameter. (4.2.2, 6.5.2, 6.5.6.3)
overloaded: Identifiers or enumeration literals that denote two different named entities. Enumeration
literals, subprograms, and predefined operators may be overloaded. At any place where an overloaded
enumeration literal occurs in the text of a program, the type of the enumeration literal will be determinable
from the context. (4.2.1, 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.3, 5.2.2.1)
parameter: A constant, signal, variable, or file declared in the interface list of a subprogram specification.
The characteristics of the class of objects to which a given parameter belongs are also characteristics of the
parameter. In addition, a parameter has an associated mode that specifies the direction of dataflow allowed
through the parameter. (4.2.2.1, 4.2.2.2, 4.2.2.3, 4.2.2.4, 4.5, 4.8)
parameter and result type profile: Two subprograms that have the same parameter type profile, and either
both are functions with the same result base type, or neither of the two is a function. (4.5.1)
parameter interface list: An interface list that declares the parameters for a subprogram. It may contain
interface constant declarations, interface signal declarations, interface variable declarations, interface file
declarations, or any combination thereof. (6.5.6.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
623
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
parameter type profile: Two formal parameter lists that have the same number of parameters, and at each
parameter position the corresponding parameters have the same base type. (4.5.1)
parent: A process or a subprogram that contains a procedure call statement for a given procedure or for a
parent of the given procedure. (4.3)
passive process: A process statement where neither the process itself, nor any procedure of which the
process is a parent, contains a signal assignment statement. (11.3)
permanent: A permanent string or structure is allocated by the tool in storage that is not subsequently
overwritten during the invocation of the tool. A VHPI program may store a pointer to a permanent string or
structure for subsequent reference to the string or structure. (23.1)
physical literal: A numeric literal of a physical type. (5.2.4.1)
physical structure: A C struct of type vhpiPhysT that represents a value of a physical type. (22.2.6)
physical type: A numeric scalar type that is used to represent measurements of some quantity. Each value of
a physical type has a position number that is an integer value. Any value of a physical type is an integral
multiple of the primary unit of measurement for that type. (5.2.1, 5.2.4)
port: A channel for dynamic communication between a block and its environment. A signal declared in the
interface list of an entity declaration, in the header of a block statement, or in the interface list of a
component declaration. In addition to the characteristics of signals, ports also have an associated mode; the
mode constrains the directions of dataflow allowed through the port. (6.4.2.3, 6.5.6.3)
port interface list: An interface list that declares the inputs and outputs of a block, component, or design
entity. It consists entirely of interface signal declarations. (6.5.6.1, 6.5.6.3, 11.2)
positional association: An association element that does not contain an explicit appearance of the formal
designator. An actual designator at a given position in an association list corresponds to the interface
element at the same position in the interface list. (6.5.7.1, 9.3.3.1)
postponed process: An explicit or implicit process whose source statement contains the reserved word
postponed. When a postponed process is resumed, it does not execute until the final simulation cycle at the
current modeled time. Thus, a postponed process accesses the values of signals that are the “stable” values at
the current simulated time. (11.3)
predefined operations: Implicitly defined subprograms and predefined operators that operate on the
predefined types. (5.2.6, 5.3.2.4, 5.4.3, 5.5.2, 9.2)
predefined operators: Implicitly defined operators that operate on the predefined types. Every predefined
operator is a pure function. No predefined operators have named formal parameters; therefore, named
association cannot be used in a function whose name denotes a predefined operator. (9.2, 16.3)
primary: One of the elements making up an expression. Each primary has a value and a type. (9.1)
private key: One key of a key pair used with an asymmetric cipher for the encryption or decryption of
information. The private key is known only to the owner of the key pair. (24.1.1)
projected output waveform: A sequence of one or more transactions representing the current and projected
future values of the driver. (14.7.2)
property: An item of data that pertains to a given object or class in an information model. (17.2.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
624
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
protected type: A type whose objects are protected from simultaneous access by more than one process.
(5.6)
protection envelope: A collection of protect tool directives that specify ciphers and keys used to encrypt or
decrypt an enclosed portion of a VHDL description. A protection envelope is either an encryption envelope
or a decryption envelope. (24.1.1)
public key: One key of a key pair used with an asymmetric cipher for the encryption or decryption of
information. The public key is published by the owner of the key pair. (24.1.1)
pulse rejection limit: The threshold time limit for which a signal value whose duration is greater than the
limit will be propagated. A pulse rejection limit is specified by the reserved word reject in an inertially
delayed signal assignment statement. (10.5.2.1)
pure function: A function that returns the same value each time it is called with the same values as actual
parameters. An impure function may return a different value each time it is called, even when different calls
have the same actual parameter values. (4.2.2)
quiet: In a given simulation cycle, a signal that is not active. (14.7.3.1)
range: A specified subset of values of a scalar type. (5.2.1) See also: ascending range; belong (to a
range); descending range; left bound; lower bound; right bound; upper bound.
range constraint: A construct that specifies the range of values in a type. A range constraint is compatible
with a subtype if each bound of the range belongs to the subtype or if the range constraint defines a null
range. The direction of a range constraint is the same as the direction of its range. (5.2.1, 5.2.3.1, 5.2.4.1,
5.2.5.1)
read: The value of an object is said to be read when its value is referenced or when certain of its attributes
are referenced. (6.5.2)
real literal: An abstract literal of the type universal_real that contains a base point. (15.5.1)
record type: A composite type whose values consist of named elements. (5.3.3, 9.3.3.2)
reference: Access to a named entity. Every appearance of a designator (a name, character literal, or operator
symbol) is a reference to the named entity denoted by the designator, unless the designator appears in a
library clause or use clause. (12.4, 13.2)
reference class: The class of an object from which a navigable association may be navigated using the
vhpi_handle or vhpi_iterator function. (19.2.1)
reference object: An object from which a navigable association may be navigated using the
vhpi_handle or vhpi_iterator function. (19.2.1)
reflection: Reflection allows the user to lift any VHDL value into a generic type called a
VALUE_MIRROR. This value mirror is implemented as a protected type. Its implementation is simulator-
specific and completely hidden from the user. Only a public interface is provided in a package called
REFLECTION. A value mirror holds a copy of the value that it encapsulates and a reference to the meta data
(or SUBTYPE_MIRROR) that describes the value. A SUBTYPE_MIRROR is a fully elaborated description
of the subtype. There are nine kinds of value and type mirrors, one for each VHDL type (sub)class. You can
cast a mirror to its more precise type with the to_* methods. (16.12)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
625
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
register: A kind of guarded signal that retains its last driven value when all of its drivers are turned off.
(6.4.2.3)
registration: The means whereby a VHPI program identifies a foreign model, foreign application, or
callback to the tool so that the tool can invoke the foreign model, application, or callback. (20.2.1, 21.2.2)
registration function: A function in a library of foreign models that performs registration of the foreign
models in the library. (20.2.2)
registration phase: That phase of tool execution in which the tool has begun executing, and foreign models
and applications are identified to the tool. (20.2)
regular structure: Instances of one or more components arranged and interconnected (via signals) in a
repetitive way. Each instance may have characteristics that depend upon its position within the group of
instances. Regular structures may be represented through the use of the generate statement. (11.8)
relative search string: A search string provided to the vhpi_handle_by_name function that represents
a name to be concatenated to the full name of a reference object. (23.22)
release a forced object: An update of a driver, signal, or variable that causes the object no longer to be
forced. (22.5)
release a handle: A VHPI program that releases a handle referring to an object indicates to the tool that the
VHPI program no longer needs the reference to the object. The tool may reclaim resources used to
implement the reference. (17.4.3)
repetitive callback: A callback for which the callback function may be triggered multiple times. (21.1)
reset phase: That phase of tool execution in which a VHDL model is restarted from the state it was in at the
end of initialization. (20.9)
resolution: The process of determining the resolved value of a resolved signal based on the values of
multiple sources for that signal. (4.6, 6.4.2.3)
resolution function: A user-defined function that computes the resolved value of a resolved signal.
(4.6, 6.4.2.3)
resolution limit: The primary unit of type TIME (by default, 1 fs). Any TIME value whose absolute value is
smaller than this limit is truncated to zero (0) time units. (5.2.4.2)
resolved signal: A signal that has an associated resolution function. (6.4.2.3)
resolved value: The output of the resolution function associated with the resolved signal, which is
determined as a function of the collection of inputs from the multiple sources of the signal. (4.6, 6.4.2.3)
resource library: A library containing library units that are referenced within the design unit being
analyzed. (13.2)
restart phase: That phase of tool execution in which a previously saved VHDL model is restarted from the
point of its save. (20.8)
result subtype: The subtype of the returned value of a function. (4.2.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
626
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
resume: The action of a wait statement upon an enclosing process when the conditions on which the wait
statement is waiting are satisfied. If the enclosing process is a nonpostponed process, the process will
subsequently execute during the current simulation cycle. Otherwise, the process is a postponed process,
which will execute during the final simulation cycle at the current simulated time. (14.7.5)
right bound: For a range L to R or L downto R, the value R. (5.2.1)
right of: When a value V1 and a value V2 belong to a range and either the range is an ascending range and
V2 is the predecessor of V1, or the range is a descending range and V2 is the successor of V1. (5.2.1)
role name: An annotation of a navigable association that identifies that association. (19.2.1)
satisfy: A property of a value with respect to some constraint. The value is said to satisfy a constraint if the
value is in the subset of values determined by the constraint. (5.1, 5.3.2.2)
save phase: That phase of tool execution in which the current state of a VHDL model is saved for possible
restart. (20.7)
scalar type: A type whose values have no elements. Scalar types consist of enumeration types, integer
types, physical types, and floating-point types. Enumeration types and integer types are called discrete types.
Integer types, floating-point types, and physical types are called numeric types. All scalar types are ordered;
that is, all relational operators are predefined for their values. (5.1, 5.2)
schedule a transaction: An update of a driver or a collection of drivers using the
vhpi_schedule_transaction function to add transactions to the projected output waveforms. (22.6)
scheduled deposit: An update for a driver or signal performed using the vhpi_put_value function with
an update mode of vhpiDepositPropagage. The deposit occurs on the driver or signal on the next
signal update phase of a simulation cycle. (14.7.2, 14.7.3, 22.5.3, 22.5.4)
scheduled force: An update for a driver or signal performed using the vhpi_put_value function with an
update mode of vhpiForcePropagage. The driver or signal becomes forced on the next signal update
phase of a simulation cycle. (14.7.2, 14.7.3, 22.5.3, 22.5.4)
scope: A portion of the text in which a declaration may be visible. This portion is defined by visibility and
overloading rules. (12.2)
secret key: A key used with a symmetric cipher for the encryption and decryption of information. (24.1.1)
selected name: Syntactically, a name having a prefix and suffix separated by a dot. Certain selected names
are used to denote record elements or objects denoted by an access value. The remaining selected names are
referred to as expanded names. (8.3, 10.2) See also: expanded name.
sensitivity set: The set of signals to which a wait statement is sensitive. The sensitivity set is given explicitly
in an on clause or is implied by an until clause. (10.2)
sensitivity-set bitmap: A value structure indicating on which signals in the sensitivity set of a callback an
event occurred. (21.3.3.3)
sequential statements: Statements that execute in sequence in the order in which they appear. Sequential
statements are used for algorithmic descriptions. (Clause 10)
session key: A key for a symmetric cipher, chosen by an encryption tool for encryption of information in a
digital envelope. The session key is encrypted and provided with the encrypted information. (24.1.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
627
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
shared variable: A variable accessible by more than one process. Such variables will be of a protected type.
(6.4.2.4)
short-circuit operation: An operation for which the right operand is evaluated only if the left operand has a
certain value. The short-circuit operations are the predefined logical operations and, or, nand, and nor for
operands of types BIT and BOOLEAN. (9.2.1)
signal: An object with a past history of values. A signal may have multiple drivers, each with a current value
and projected future values. The term signal refers to objects declared by signal declarations or port
declarations. (6.4.2.3)
signal transform: A sequential statement within a statement transform that determines which one of the
alternative waveforms, if any, is to be assigned to an output signal. A signal transform is the same simple,
conditional, or selected signal assignment statement as is contained in the concurrent signal assignment
statement for which the statement transform is defined. (11.6)
simple name: The identifier associated with a named entity, either in its own declaration or in an alias
declaration. (8.2)
simple package: A package declared by a package declaration containing no generic clause and no generic
map aspect. (4.7)
simple protected type: A protected type declared by a protected type declaration containing no generic list
and no generic map aspect. (5.6.2)
simple subprogram: A subprogram declared by a subprogram declaration containing no generic list and no
generic map aspect. (4.2.1)
simulated net: A set of objects, represented by objects of class signal, that have the same effective and
driving values, as appropriate, at all simulations times. (19.12.2)
simulation cycle: One iteration in the repetitive execution of the processes defined by process statements in
a model. The first simulation cycle occurs after initialization. A simulation cycle can be a delta cycle or a
time-advance cycle. (14.7.5)
simulation phase: That phase of tool execution in which execution of an elaborated and initialized design
hierarchy occurs. (14.7.5.3, 20.6)
simulation phase callback: A callback whose trigger event relates to steps of the simulation cycle. (21.3.6)
single-line comment: A comment that starts with two adjacent hyphens and extends up to the end of the
line. (15.9)
single-object declaration: An object declaration whose identifier list contains a single identifier; it is called
a multiple-object declaration if the identifier list contains two or more identifiers. (6.4.2.1)
slice: A one-dimensional array of a sequence of consecutive elements of another one-dimensional array.
(8.5)
source: A contributor to the value of a signal. A source can be a driver or port of a block with which a signal
is associated or a composite collection of sources. (6.4.2.3)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
628
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
specification: A class of construct that associates additional information with a named entity. There are
three kinds of specifications: attribute specifications, configuration specifications, and disconnection
specifications. (Clause 7)
standard direct binding: A form of foreign attribute value that specifies an object library path, elaboration
function name, and execution function name for a foreign model. (20.2.4.3)
standard indirect binding: A form of foreign attribute value that specifies an object library name and a
model name. The tool uses the foreign attribute value in conjunction with registration information to locate
the elaboration and executions functions for the foreign model. (20.2.4.2)
statement callback: A callback whose trigger event relates to execution of one or more statements of
suspension or resumption of a process. (21.3.4)
statement transform: The first sequential statement in the process equivalent to the concurrent signal
assignment statement. The statement transform defines the actions of the concurrent signal assignment
statement when it executes. The statement transform is followed by a wait statement, which is the final
statement in the equivalent process. (11.6)
static: See: globally static expression; globally static primary; locally static expression; locally static
name; locally static primary; locally static subtype.
static name: A name in which every expression that appears as part of the name (for example, as an index
expression) is a static expression (if every discrete range that appears as part of the name denotes a static
range or subtype and if no prefix within the name is either an object or value of an access type or a function
call). (8.1)
static object: An object in an information model that, once created, remains in existence until termination of
the tool. (17.2.1)
static range: A range whose bounds are static expressions. (9.4)
static signal name: A static name that denotes a signal. (8.1)
static variable name: A static name that denotes a variable. (8.1)
string literal: A sequence of graphic characters, or possibly none, enclosed between two quotation marks
(''). The type of a string literal is determined from the context. (9.3.2, 15.7)
string representation: A string that represents the value of a given type. A string representation of a value
is returned by the TO_STRING operation. (5.7)
subaggregate: An aggregate appearing as the expression in an element association within another,
multidimensional array aggregate. The subaggregate is an (n–1)-dimensional array aggregate, where n is the
dimensionality of the outer aggregate. Aggregates of multidimensional arrays are expressed in row-major
(right-most index varies fastest) order. (9.3.3.3)
subclass: The class in an inheritance relationship that inherits properties, operations, and associations.
(17.2.1)
subelement: An element of another element. Where other subelements are excluded, the term element is
used. (5.1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
629
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
subprogram specification: Specifies the designator of the subprogram, any formal parameters of the
subprogram, and the result type for a function subprogram. (4.2.1)
subtype: A type together with a constraint. A value belongs to a subtype of a given type if it belongs to the
type and satisfies the constraint; the given type is called the base type of the subtype. A type is a subtype of
itself. Such a subtype is said to be unconstrained because it corresponds to a condition that imposes no
restriction. A subtype S1 is compatible with a subtype S2 if the range constraint associated with S1 is
compatible with S2. (5.1)
superclass: The class in an inheritance relationship from which properties, operations, and associations are
inherited. (17.2.1)
suspend: A process that stops executing and waits for an event or for a time period to elapse. (14.7.5)
symmetric cipher: A cipher requiring a single key, called the secret key, for both encryption and decryption
of information. (24.1.1, 24.1.3.2)
synthesis tool: Any tool that interprets VHDL source code as a description of an electronic circuit in
accordance with the terms of this standard and derives an alternate description of that circuit. (16.8.1.2)
tabular registry: A text file containing the registration information for foreign models and applications.
(20.2.2)
target class: The class of an object to which navigation via a navigable association is permitted using the
vhpi_handle or vhpi_iterator function. (19.2.1)
target library: A library containing the design unit in which a given component is declared. The target
library is used to determine the visible entity declaration under certain circumstances for a default binding
indication (7.3.3)
target object: An object to which navigation via a navigable association is permitted using the
vhpi_handle or vhpi_iterator function. (19.2.1)
termination phase: That phase of tool execution in which the tool has completed execution and is
terminating. (20.10)
time callback: A callback whose trigger event relates to progress of simulation time. (21.3.5)
time structure: A C struct of type vhpiTimeT that represents a nonnegative time. (22.2.7)
timeout interval: The maximum time a process will be suspended, as specified by the timeout period in the
until clause of a wait statement. (10.2)
to the left of: See: left of.
to the right of: See: right of.
tool: A program that maintains a representation of a VHDL model and provides the VHPI functions.
(17.2.1)
transaction: A pair consisting of a value and a time. The value represents a (current or) future value of the
driver; the time represents the relative delay before the value becomes the current value. (14.7.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
630
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
transient: A transient string or structure is allocated by the tool in storage that may subsequently be
overwritten. The value of the string or structure persists at least until the earlier of the next call to the given
VHPI function by the same thread of control or the return to the tool by the thread of control that called the
given VHPI function. If a VHPI program needs to refer to the value of a transient string or structure beyond
the interval for which it persists, the VHPI program will copy the value. (23.1)
transport delay: An optional delay model for signal assignment. Transport delay is characteristic of
hardware devices (such as transmission lines) that exhibit nearly infinite frequency response: any pulse is
transmitted, no matter how short its duration. (10.5.2.1) See also: inertial delay.
trigger event: An occurrence of a callback reason that causes a callback, if enabled, to be invoked. (21.1)
trigger object: An object in an information model that is associated with a trigger event for a callback.
(21.1)
type: A set of values and a set of operations. (Clause 5)
type conversion: An expression that converts the value of a subexpression from one type to the designated
type of the type conversion. Associations in the form of a type conversion are also allowed. These
associations have functions and restrictions similar to conversion functions but can be used in places where
conversion functions cannot. In both cases (expressions and associations), the converted type will be closely
related to the designated type. (6.5.7.1, 9.3.6) See also: closely related types; conversion function.
unaffected: A waveform in a signal assignment statement that does not affect the driver of the target.
(10.5.2.1)
unassociated formal: A formal that is not associated with an actual. (6.5.7.2, 6.5.7.3)
unconstrained subtype: A subtype that corresponds to a condition that imposes no restriction. (5.1, 6.3)
uninstantiated package: A package declared by a package declaration containing a generic clause and no
generic map aspect. An uninstantiated package may be instantiated with a package instantiation declaration.
(4.7, 4.9)
uninstantiated protected type: A protected type declared by a protected type declaration containing a
generic list and no generic map aspect. An uninstantiated protected type may be instantiated with a protected
type instantiation declaration or in variable declaration (5.6.2)
uninstantiated subprogram: A subprogram declared by a subprogram declaration containing a generic list
and no generic map aspect. An uninstantiated subprogram may be instantiated with a subprogram
instantiation declaration. (4.2.1, 4.4)
unit name: A name defined by a unit declaration (either the primary unit declaration or a secondary unit
declaration) in a physical type declaration. (5.2.4.1)
universal_integer: An anonymous predefined integer type that is used for all integer literals. The position
number of an integer value is the corresponding value of the type universal_integer. (5.2.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.6)
universal_real: An anonymous predefined type that is used for literals of floating-point types. Other
floating-point types have no literals. However, for each floating-point type there exists an implicit
conversion that converts a value of type universal_real into the corresponding value (if any) of the
floating-point type. (5.2.5.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.6)
unspecified type: A type definition which has no explicit type declaration (6.5.2).
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
631
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
update: An action on the value of a signal, variable, or file. The value of a signal is said to be updated when
the signal appears as the target (or a element of the target) of a signal assignment statement (indirectly);
when it is associated with an interface object of mode out, buffer, inout, or linkage; or when one of its
subelements (individually or as part of a slice) is updated. The value of a signal is also said to be updated
when it is a subelement or slice of a resolved signal, and the resolved signal, is updated. The value of a
variable is said to be updated when the variable appears as the target (or a element of the target) of a variable
assignment statement (indirectly), when it is associated with an interface object of mode out or linkage, or
when one of its subelements (individually or as part of a slice) is updated. The value of a file is said to be
updated when a WRITE or FLUSH operation is performed on the file object. (6.5.2)
upper bound: The right bound of an ascending range or the left bound of a descending range. (5.2.1)
valid handle: A handle that refers to an object that exists. (14.7.5)
value structure: A C struct of type vhpiValueT that represents a scalar value, a one-dimensional array of
scalar values, or a value of any type represented in an implementation-defined internal representation.
(22.2.8)
variable: An object with a single current value. (6.4.2.4)
VHPI program: A program that calls the VHPI functions. (17.2.1)
view: View mode enables individual mode control (in, out, inout, buffer or linkage) over the elements of an
interface object having composite type. (6.5.2)
visible: When the declaration of an identifier defines a possible meaning of an occurrence of the identifier
used in the declaration. A visible declaration is visible by selection (for example, by using an expanded
name) or directly visible (for example, by using a simple name). (12.3)
visible entity declaration: The entity declaration selected for default binding in the absence of explicit
binding information for a given component instance. (7.3.3)
waveform: A series of transactions, each of which represents a future value of the driver of a signal. The
transactions in a waveform are ordered with respect to time, so that one transaction appears before another if
the first represents a value that will occur sooner than the value represented by the other. (10.5.2.1)
whitespace character: A space, a nonbreaking space, or a horizontal tabulation character (SP, NBSP, or
HT). (16.4)
working library: A design library into which the library unit resulting from the analysis of a design unit is
placed. (13.2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
