IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
355
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
17. VHDL Procedural Interface overview
17.1 General
The VHDL Procedural Interface (VHPI) is an application-programming interface to VHDL tools that allows
programmatic access to a VHDL model during its analysis, elaboration, and execution. The VHPI is
described in this clause, subsequent clauses through to Clause 23, and Annex B.
17.2 Organization of the interface
17.2.1 General
The VHPI consists of two aspects:
—
An information model that represents the topology and state of a VHDL model
—
A number of functions that operate on the information model to access or affect the state of the
VHDL model and that interact with tools during analysis, elaboration, or execution of the VHDL
model
A tool is a program that maintains a representation of a VHDL model and provides the VHPI functions. A
VHPI program is a program that calls the VHPI functions.
The information model is expressed in an object-oriented manner as a set of classes that bear relationships
to one another. The classes are data types that have data properties and subprogram operations. A subclass
may be derived from one or more superclasses, in which case it inherits the properties and operations of its
superclasses. An object is an instance of a class and of any superclasses of that class. The most specialized
class of an object is the class of which the object is a member and that has no subclass of which the object is
also a member. An abstract class cannot be the most specialized class of any object; however, it may be a
superclass of a non-abstract class that is the most specialized class of an object.
Some objects are static; that is, once created, they remain in existence until termination of the tool. Other
objects are dynamic; that is, once created, they may cease to exist at a later time during execution of the tool.
The properties of a class represent data that is characteristic of an object of the class. The VHPI provides
functions that allow a VHPI program to access and modify the values of properties of a given object. By
using such functions, a VHPI program can access and modify values of VHDL objects in a VHDL model.
In addition to the inheritance relationship, a class may bear an association relationship with one or more
other classes. A one-to-one association means that an object of a class is associated with at most one object
of the second class. A one-to-many association means that an object of the class is associated with possibly
more than one object of the second class. The VHPI provides functions that allow a VHPI program to
traverse associations; that is, to locate objects that are associated with a given object.
The information model contains two sub-models. The first, referred to as the library information model,
represents the design units that comprise a VHDL model after analysis and prior to elaboration. The second,
referred to as the design hierarchy information model, represents the elaborated VHDL model. It contains
instances, created through elaboration, of objects from the library information model. The design hierarchy
information model may be used by a tool that simulates the VHDL model to gain access to the state of the
VHDL model during execution. The design hierarchy information model includes associations with objects
in the library information model, allowing navigation between the information models. The information
model also contains objects representing the tool and its environment.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
356
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
A VHPI program can interact with a tool by providing callback functions. Such functions are identified to
the tool using VHPI registration functions. The tool then calls the functions in response to events specified
during registration. Such events include phases of tool execution, phases of model simulation, and changes
of value of VHDL objects.
The VHPI also provides utility functions for such purposes as printing, error checking, and tool control.
In this standard, the VHPI information model is described using the UML notation. UML is described in
ISO/IEC 19501:2005. The VHPI is ISO C-compliant. The VHPI functions are expressed as C functions, and
the data and arguments used by the functions are expressed as C data types. ISO C is described in ISO/IEC
9899:2018.
17.2.2 VHPI naming conventions
Named items in the VHPI conform to the following conventions:
—
The names of functions consist of the letters vhpi followed by an underline character and one or
more words, each of which consists of lowercase letters, with a single underline character between
words.
—
The names of items other than functions consist of the letters vhpi followed by one or more words,
each of which consists of an uppercase letter followed by zero or more lowercase letters, with no
character between words.
—
The names of types end in an uppercase letter T.
—
The names of enumeration constants that correspond to classes end in an uppercase letter K.
—
The names of enumeration constants that correspond to properties end in an uppercase letter P.
—
The names of enumeration constants that correspond to one-to-many associations end in a lowercase
letter s, indicating plurality.
—
Some words are abbreviated, for example, decl for declaration, stmt for statement, conc for
concurrent, seq for sequential, and subp for subprogram.
In this standard, C identifiers are formatted in a monospaced font to enhance readability of the text.
17.3 Capability sets
The VHPI is divided into a number of capability sets, each of which provides a subset of the VHPI
operations, properties, and functions. Corresponding to each capability set, there is an enumeration constant
of type vhpiCapabilitiesT defined in the VHPI header file (see Annex B).
The VHPI capability set names and corresponding enumeration constants are as follows:
—
Hierarchy set: vhpiProvidesHierarchy.
A tool that implements this hierarchy set shall provide access to objects in the design hierarchy
information model that represent statically elaborated regions and declarations and shall provide
access to the values of declared objects.
—
Static access set: vhpiProvidesStaticAccess. This set requires the hierarchy set.
A tool that implements the static access set shall additionally provide access to objects in the design
hierarchy information model that represent statically elaborated statements and the expressions
within them.
—
Connectivity set: vhpiProvidesConnectivity. This set requires the hierarchy set.
A tool that implements the connectivity set shall additionally provide access to objects in the design
hierarchy information model that represent drivers, contributors, loads, and port associations.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
357
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
—
Post-analysis set: vhpiProvidesPostAnalysis.
A tool that implements the post-analysis set shall provide access to objects in the library information
model and shall provide access to the values of declared objects that are initialized with locally static
expressions.
—
Basic foreign model set: vhpiProvidesForeignModel. This set requires the hierarchy set.
A tool that implements the basic foreign model set shall additionally support creation of foreign
models and foreign model callbacks and shall provide access to objects in the design hierarchy
information model that represent foreign models.
—
Advanced foreign model set: vhpiProvidesAdvancedForeignModel. This set requires the
basic foreign model set.
A tool that implements the advanced foreign model set shall additionally support creation of foreign
drivers and processes and scheduling of transactions on foreign drivers.
—
Save/restart set: vhpiProvidesSaveRestart.
A tool that implements the save/restart set shall support save and restart of foreign models, use of the
vhpi_put_data and vhpi_get_data functions, save and restart callbacks, and shall provide
access to the Id and SaveRestartLocation properties.
—
Reset set: vhpiProvidesReset.
A tool that implements the reset set shall support reset of foreign models and reset callbacks.
—
Basic debug and runtime simulation set: vhpiProvidesDebugRuntime. This set requires the
static access set and the connectivity set.
A tool that implements the debug and runtime simulation set shall support use of the
vhpi_control, vhpi_get_time, and vhpi_get_next_time functions; object value
change callbacks for signals, ports, and drivers; time and action callbacks; and updating of signals,
ports, and drivers.
—
Advanced debug and runtime simulation set: vhpiProvidesAdvancedDebugRuntime. This
set requires the basic debug and runtime simulation set.
A tool that implements the advanced debug and runtime simulation set shall additionally support
object value change callbacks for variables, updating of variables, and the LineOffset property.
—
Dynamic elaboration set: vhpiProvidesDynamicElab. This set requires the debug and runtime
simulation set.
A tool that implements the dynamic elaboration set shall additionally provide access to objects that
represent dynamically elaborated regions, declarations, and constructs.
If a tool specifies that it implements a given capability set, it shall provide all of the operations, properties,
and functions specified for the capability set. If the capability set requires one or more other capability sets,
the tool shall also implement the required capability sets. A tool shall provide a value for the
vhpiCapabilitiesP property of the tool class that specifies the capability sets that the tool
implements.
If a VHPI program calls an operation or function that is not provided in the capability sets provided by a
tool, the function shall raise a VHPI error condition. Similarly, if a VHPI program accesses a property that is
not provided in the capability sets provided by a tool, the access function shall raise a VHPI error condition.
In both cases, the error message returned by a subsequent call to vhpi_check_error shall indicate that
the operation is not implemented.
NOTE—A minimal implementation of the VHPI need only provide the function interface described in Clause 23 and
Annex B, with none of the capability sets described in this subclause being implemented by the tool. In such a minimal
implementation, calls to functions would, in most cases, raise a VHPI error condition.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
358
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
17.4 Handles
17.4.1 General
A handle is an opaque reference to an object in the VHPI information model. It is represented as a value of
the data type vhpiHandleT (see Annex B); however, the interpretation of the representation is
implementation defined. A handle allows a VHPI program to refer to an object without assuming details of
the representation of the object. The VHPI provides functions that operate on objects referred to by handles.
The particular operations that are legal for an object referred to by a handle depend on the class of the object.
The class is identified by the Kind property of the object.
In this standard, if an object is described as being of a given class, the object may be of the given class,
provided the class is not an abstract class or any non-abstract subclass of the given class.
NOTE—The Kind property of an object identifies the most specific class of the object, that is, the class for which no
subclass is also a class of the object.
17.4.2 Handle creation
A handle is created by a tool as the result of one of the following functions called by a VHPI program:
—
vhpi_handle_by_name, which returns a handle that refers to an object identified by a name
—
vhpi_handle_by_index, which returns a handle that refers to an object in an ordered
one-to-many association
—
vhpi_handle, which returns a handle that refers to the object in a one-to-one association
—
vhpi_create, which creates or modifies an object, such as a driver, a process statement, or a
collection, and returns a handle that refers to the object
—
vhpi_register_cb, which returns a handle that refers to the callback object
—
vhpi_register_foreignf, which returns a handle that refers to the callback object
—
vhpi_iterator, which returns a handle that refers to an iterator
—
vhpi_scan, which returns a handle that refers to an object referenced by an iterator
A tool shall support multiple VHPI programs, each of which acquires handles. The way in which a tool
implements handles shall allow a VHPI program to function correctly independently of other VHPI
programs executing concurrently. A tool may share between VHPI programs resources associated with the
implementation of handles and the objects to which they refer. However, the occurrence of such sharing
shall not alter the effect of the VHPI programs.
If a tool creates two handles that refer to the same object, the tool may create two distinct handles or may
provide the same handle in both cases. Two distinct handles that refer to the same object are equivalent.
NOTE—The number of handles that an implementation can create may be constrained by the capacity of the host
system.
17.4.3 Handle release
The function vhpi_release_handle called by a VHPI program causes a tool to release a handle. If a
tool shares resources associated with handles and one VHPI program releases a handle, other VHPI
programs shall be able to continue to refer to objects using handles that they have not released.
The tool may reclaim resources associated with the representation of a released handle.
NOTE 1—It is recommended that a VHPI program release handles when they are no longer needed.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
359
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
NOTE 2—A tool may reclaim resources associated with a handle when the handle is released by a VHPI program,
provided the requirements of 17.4 are met. As a consequence, resources might not be reclaimed immediately upon
release of a handle by a VHPI program, as the resources may be associated with handles in use by other VHPI programs.
17.4.4 Handle comparison
The function vhpi_compare_handles compares handles. It returns the value vhpiTrue if the handles
are equivalent (that is, they refer to the same object); otherwise it returns the value vhpiFalse.
17.4.5 Validity of handles
The lifetime of an object is the duration of existence of the object in the VHPI information model. A static
object is created at some time during the execution of a tool and exists until termination of the tool. A
dynamic object is created at some time during the execution of a tool and may cease to exist at a later time
during the execution of the tool, either as a consequence of execution of the VHDL model or of removal by
a VHPI program.
A tool can create a handle that refers to an object only during the lifetime of the object. A handle is said to be
valid from the time of its creation until the time at which it is released, or until the object that it refers to
ceases to exist, or until termination of the tool; at other times it is invalid. A VHPI program that attempts to
refer to an object using an invalid handle is erroneous.
NOTE—A VHPI program that attempts to release an invalid handle is also erroneous.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
