IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
138
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
8. Names
8.1 General
Names can denote declared entities, whether declared explicitly or implicitly. Names can also denote the
following:
—
Objects denoted by access values
—
Methods (see 5.6.2) of protected types
—
Subelements of composite objects
—
Subelements of composite values
—
Slices of composite objects
—
Slices of composite values
—
Attributes of any named entity
name ::=
        simple_name
    |   operator_symbol
    |   character_literal
    |   selected_name
    |   indexed_name
    |   slice_name
    |   attribute_name
    |   external_name
prefix ::=
        name
    |   function_call
Certain forms of name (indexed and selected names, slice names, and attribute names) include a prefix that
is a name or a function call. If the prefix of a name is a function call, then the name denotes an element, a
slice, or an attribute, either of the result of the function call, or (if the result is an access value) of the object
designated by the result. Function calls are defined in 9.3.4.
A prefix is said to be appropriate for a type in either of the following cases:
—
The type of the prefix is the type considered.
—
The type of the prefix is an access type whose designated type is the type considered.
The evaluation of a name determines the named entity denoted by the name. The evaluation of a name that
has a prefix includes the evaluation of the prefix, that is, of the corresponding name or function call. If the
type of the prefix is an access type, the evaluation of the prefix includes the determination of the object
designated by the corresponding access value. In such a case, it is an error if the value of the prefix is a null
access value. It is an error if, after all type analysis (including overload resolution), the name is ambiguous.
A name is said to be a static name if and only if one of the following conditions holds:
—
The name is a simple name or selected name (including those that are expanded names) that does not
denote a function call, an object or value of an access type, or an object of a protected type and (in
the case of a selected name) whose prefix is a static name.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
139
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
—
The name is an indexed name whose prefix is a static name, and every expression that appears as part
of the name is a static expression.
—
The name is a slice name whose prefix is a static name and whose discrete range is a static discrete
range.
—
The name is an attribute name whose prefix is a static signal name and whose suffix is one of the
predefined attributes 'DELAYED, 'STABLE, 'QUIET, or 'TRANSACTION.
—
The name is an external name.
Furthermore, a name is said to be a locally static name if and only if one of the following conditions hold:
—
The name is a simple name or selected name (including those that are expanded names) that is not an
alias and that does not denote a function call, an object or value of an access type, or an object of a
protected type and (in the case of a selected name) whose prefix is a locally static name.
—
The name is a simple name or selected name (including those that are expanded names) that is an
alias, and that the aliased name given in the corresponding alias declaration (see 6.6) is a locally
static name, and (in the case of a selected name) whose prefix is a locally static name.
—
The name is an indexed name whose prefix is a locally static name, and every expression that
appears as part of the name is a locally static expression.
—
The name is a slice name whose prefix is a locally static name and whose discrete range is a locally
static discrete range.
A static signal name is a static name that denotes a signal. The longest static prefix of a signal name is the
name itself, if the name is a static signal name; otherwise, it is the longest prefix of the name that is a static
signal name. Similarly, a static variable name is a static name that denotes a variable, and the longest static
prefix of a variable name is the name itself, if the name is a static variable name; otherwise, it is the longest
prefix of the name that is a static variable name.
Examples:
S(C,2)        --A static name: C is a static constant.
R(J to 16)    --A nonstatic name: J is a signal.
              --R is the longest static prefix of R(J to 16).
T(n)          --A static name; n is a generic constant.
T(2)          --A locally static name.
8.2 Simple names
A simple name for a named entity is either the identifier associated with the entity by its declaration or
another identifier associated with the entity by an alias declaration.   In particular, the simple name for an
entity declaration, a configuration, a package, a procedure, or a function is the identifier that appears in the
corresponding entity declaration, configuration declaration, package declaration, procedure declaration or
function declaration, respectively. The simple name of an architecture is that defined by the identifier of the
architecture body.
simple_name ::= identifier
The evaluation of a simple name has no other effect than to determine the named entity denoted by the
name.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
140
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
8.3 Selected names
A selected name is used to denote a named entity whose declaration appears either within the declaration of
another named entity or within a design library.
selected_name ::=  prefix . suffix
suffix ::=
          simple_name
      |   character_literal
      |   operator_symbol
      |  all
A selected name can denote an element of a record, an object designated by an access value, or a named
entity whose declaration is contained within another named entity, particularly within a library, a package,
or a protected type. Furthermore, a selected name can denote all named entities whose declarations are
contained within a library or a package.
For a selected name that is used to denote a record element, the suffix shall be a simple name denoting an
element of a record object or value. The prefix shall be appropriate for the type of this object or value.
For a selected name that is used to denote the object designated by an access value, the suffix shall be the
reserved word all. The prefix shall belong to an access type.
The remaining forms of selected names are called expanded names. The prefix of an expanded name shall
not be a function call.
An expanded name denotes a primary unit contained in a design library if the prefix denotes the library and
the suffix is the simple name of a primary unit whose declaration is contained in that library. An expanded
name denotes all primary units contained in a library if the prefix denotes the library and the suffix is the
reserved word all. An expanded name is not allowed for a secondary unit, whether denoting a package body
or an architecture body. 
An expanded name denotes a named entity declared in a package if the prefix denotes the package and the
suffix is the simple name, character literal, or operator symbol of a named entity whose declaration occurs
immediately within that package. An expanded name denotes all named entities declared in a package if the
prefix denotes the package and the suffix is the reserved word all.
An expanded name denotes a named entity declared immediately within a named construct if the prefix
denotes a construct that is an entity declaration, an architecture body, a subprogram declaration, a
subprogram body, a block statement, a process statement, a generate statement, a loop statement, or a
protected type definition, and the suffix is the simple name, character literal, or operator symbol of a named
entity whose declaration occurs immediately within that construct. This form of expanded name is only
allowed within the construct itself, or if the prefix denotes an entity declaration and the expanded name
occurs within an architecture body corresponding to the entity declaration.
An expanded name denotes a named entity declared immediately within an architecture body if the prefix
denotes the entity declaration corresponding to the architecture body and the suffix is the simple name,
character literal, or operator symbol of a named entity whose declaration occurs immediately within the
architecture body. This form of expanded name is only allowed within the architecture body.
An expanded name denotes a named entity declared immediately within an elaborated protected type if the
prefix denotes an object of the protected type and the suffix is a simple name of a method or an alias whose
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
141
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
declaration appears immediately within the protected type declaration. If the object is of a composite type
with a subelement of a protected type, the prefix shall denote such a subelement.
If, according to the visibility rules, there is at least one possible interpretation of the prefix of a selected
name as the name of an enclosing entity declaration, architecture, subprogram, block statement, process
statement, generate statement, loop statement, or protected type, or if there is at least one possible
interpretation of the prefix of a selected name as the name of an object of a protected type, then the only
interpretations considered are those of the immediately preceding three paragraphs. In this case, the selected
name is always interpreted as an expanded name. In particular, no interpretations of the prefix as a function
call are considered.
Examples:
-- Given the following declarations:
type INSTR_TYPE is
   record
      OPCODE: OPCODE_TYPE;
   end record;
signal INSTRUCTION: INSTR_TYPE;
-- The name "INSTRUCTION.OPCODE" is the name of a record element.
-- Given the following declarations:
type INSTR_PTR is access INSTR_TYPE;
variable PTR: INSTR_PTR;
-- The name "PTR.all" is the name of the object designated by PTR.
-- Given the following library clause:
library TTL, CMOS;
-- The name "TTL.SN74LS221" is the name of a design unit contained 
-- a library and the name "CMOS.all" denotes all design units 
-- contained in a library.
-- Given the following declaration and use clause:
library MKS;
use MKS.MEASUREMENTS, STD.STANDARD;
-- The name "MEASUREMENTS.VOLTAGE" denotes a named entity declared in
-- a package and the name "STANDARD.all" denotes all named entities
-- declared in a package.
-- Given the following process label and declarative part:
P: process
   variable DATA: INTEGER;
begin
   -- Within process P, the name "P.DATA" denotes a named entity
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
142
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
   -- declared with process P.
end process;
counter.increment(5); -- See Clause 6.4.2.4 for the definition
counter.decrement(i); 
-- of "counter."
if counter.value = 0 then ... end if;
result.add(sv1, sv2);-- See Clause 6.4.2.4 for the definition
-- of "result."
bit_stack.add_bit(1, '1');    -- See Clause 6.4.2.4 for the 
definition bit_stack.add_bit(2, '1'); -- of "bit_stack."
bit_stack.add_bit(3, '0');
NOTE 1—The object denoted by an access value is accessed differently depending on whether the entire object or a
subelement of the object is desired. If the entire object is desired, a selected name whose prefix denotes the access value
and whose suffix is the reserved word all is used. In this case, the access value is not automatically dereferenced, since it
is necessary to distinguish an access value from the object denoted by an access value. If a subelement of the object is
desired, a selected name whose prefix denotes the access value is again used; however, the suffix in this case denotes the
subelement. In this case, the access value is automatically dereferenced.
These two cases are shown in the following example:
type rec;
type recptr is access rec;
type rec is
   record
value  : INTEGER;
\next\ : recptr;
   end record;
variable list1, list2: recptr;
variable recobj: rec;
list2 := list1; 
-- Access values are copied;
-- list1 and list2 now denote the same object.
list2 := list1.\next\; 
-- list2 denotes the same object as list1.\next\.
-- list1.\next\ is the same as list1.all.\next\.
-- An implicit dereference of the access value occurs before the
-- "\next\" element is selected.
recobj := list2.all;  
-- An explicit dereference is needed here.
NOTE 2—Overload resolution is used to disambiguate selected names. See rules a) and c) of 12.5.
NOTE 3—If, according to the rules of this subclause and of 12.5, there is not exactly one interpretation of a selected
name that satisfies these rules, then the selected name is ambiguous.
8.4 Indexed names
An indexed name denotes an element of an array.
indexed_name ::=  prefix ( expression { , expression } )
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
143
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
The prefix of an indexed name shall be appropriate for an array type. The expressions specify the index
values for the element; there shall be one such expression for each index position of the array, and each
expression shall be of the type of the corresponding index. For the evaluation of an indexed name, the prefix
and the expressions are evaluated. It is an error if an index value does not belong to the range of the
corresponding index range of the array.
Examples:
REGISTER_ARRAY(5)          -- An element of a one-dimensional array
MEMORY_CELL(1024,7)        -- An element of a two-dimensional array
NOTE—If a name (including one used as a prefix) has an interpretation both as an indexed name and as a function call,
then the innermost complete context is used to disambiguate the name. If, after applying this rule, there is not exactly
one interpretation of the name, then the name is ambiguous. See 12.5.
8.5 Slice names
A slice name denotes a one-dimensional array composed of a sequence of consecutive elements of another
one-dimensional array. A slice of a signal is a signal; a slice of a variable is a variable; a slice of a constant is
a constant; a slice of a value is a value.
slice_name ::=  prefix ( discrete_range )
The prefix of a slice shall be appropriate for a one-dimensional array object. The base type of this array type
is the type of the slice.
The bounds of the discrete range define those of the slice and shall be of the type of the index of the array.
The slice is a null slice if the discrete range is a null range. It is an error if the direction of the discrete range
is not the same as that of the index range of the array denoted by the prefix of the slice name.
For the evaluation of a name that is a slice, the prefix and the discrete range are evaluated. It is an error if
either of the bounds of the discrete range does not belong to the index range of the prefixing array, unless the
slice is a null slice. (The bounds of a null slice need not belong to the subtype of the index.)
Examples:
signal   R15:  BIT_VECTOR (0 to 31);
constant DATA: BIT_VECTOR (31 downto 0);
R15(0 to 7)            -- A slice with an ascending range.
DATA(24 downto 1)      -- A slice with a descending range.
DATA(1 downto 24)      -- A null slice.
DATA(24 to 25)         -- An error.
NOTE—If A is a one-dimensional array of objects, the name A(N to N) or A(N downto N) is a slice that contains one
element; its type is the base type of A. On the other hand, A(N) is an element of the array A and has the corresponding
element type.
8.6 Attribute names
An attribute name denotes a value, function, type, range, signal, or constant associated with a named entity.
attribute_name ::=
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
144
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
    prefix [ signature ] ' attribute_designator [ ( expression ) ]
attribute_designator ::=  attribute_simple_name
The applicable attribute designators depend on the prefix plus the signature, if any. The meaning of the
prefix of an attribute shall be determinable independently of the attribute designator and independently of
the fact that it is the prefix of an attribute.
It is an error if a signature follows the prefix and the prefix does not denote a subprogram or enumeration
literal, or an alias thereof. In this case, the signature is required to match (see 4.5.3) the parameter and result
type profile of exactly one visible subprogram or enumeration literal, as is appropriate to the prefix.
If the attribute designator denotes a predefined attribute, the expression either shall or may appear,
depending upon the definition of that attribute (see Clause 16); otherwise, it shall not be present. For an
attribute that denotes a function, an expression does not appear as part of the attribute name; a parenthesized
expression following the attribute designator is interpreted as part of a function call (see 9.3.4).
If the prefix of an attribute name denotes an alias, then the attribute name denotes an attribute of the aliased
name and not the alias itself, except when the attribute designator denotes any of the predefined attributes
'SIMPLE_NAME, 'PATH_NAME, or 'INSTANCE_NAME. If the prefix of an attribute name denotes an
alias and the attribute designator denotes any of the predefined attributes SIMPLE_NAME, 'PATH_NAME,
or 'INSTANCE_NAME, then the attribute name denotes the attribute of the alias and not of the aliased
name.
If the attribute designator denotes a user-defined attribute, the prefix cannot denote a subelement or a slice of
an object.
NOTE—An attribute name that denotes a predefined attribute that is a function may be associated as the actual for a
formal generic subprogram.
Examples:
REG'LEFT(1) 
-- The leftmost index bound of array REG
INPUT_P'PATH_NAME   -- The hierarchical path name of
 
-- the port INPUT_P
CLK'DELAYED(5 ns)     -- The signal CLK delayed by 5 ns
8.7 External names
An external name denotes an object declared in the design hierarchy containing the external name.
external_name ::=
        external_constant_name
    |   external_signal_name
    |   external_variable_name
external_constant_name ::=
    << constant external_pathname : interface_type_indication >>
external_signal_name ::=
    << signal external_pathname : interface_type_indication >>
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
145
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
external_variable_name ::=
    << variable external_pathname : interface_type_indication >>
external_pathname ::= 
        package_pathname
    |   absolute_pathname
    |   relative_pathname
package_pathname ::=
    @ library_logical_name . package_simple_name . { package_simple_name . } object_simple_name
absolute_pathname ::= . partial_pathname
relative_pathname ::= { ^ . } partial_pathname
partial_pathname ::= { pathname_element . } object_simple_name
pathname_element ::=
        entity_simple_name
    |   component_instantiation_label
    |   block_label
    |   generate_statement_label [ ( static_expression ) ]
    |    package_simple_name
The object denoted by an external name is the object whose simple name is the object simple name of the
external pathname and that is declared in the elaborated declarative region identified by the external
pathname, as follows:
a)
First, a declarative region is initially identified:
1)
For an absolute pathname, the root declarative region encompassing the design entity that
forms the root of the design hierarchy is initially identified.
2)
For a package pathname, the library logical name shall be defined by a library clause, and the
library declarative region associated with the design library denoted by the library logical name
is initially identified.
3)
For a relative pathname, the innermost concurrent region is initially identified, where a
concurrent region is defined recursively to be
—
A block declarative region (including an external block and any block equivalent to a
generate statement), or
—
A package declarative region (including a generic-mapped package equivalent to a
package instantiation) declared immediately within a concurrent region.
Then, for each occurrence of a circumflex accent followed by a dot, the innermost concurrent
region, other than a block declarative region of a block corresponding to a component
instantiation statement, containing the previously identified declarative region replaces the
previously identified declarative region as the identified declarative region. It is an error when
evaluating the external name if, at any stage, there is no such containing declarative region, or
if the containing declarative region is the declarative region of an uninstantiated package.
b)
Second, for each package simple name in a package pathname, or for each pathname element in an
absolute or relative pathname, in order, the previously identified declarative region is replaced as the
identified declarative region by one of the following:
1)
For a package simple name, the declarative region of the package denoted by the package
simple name in the previously identified declarative region. If the package simple name
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
146
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
denotes a package instantiation, then the declarative region is that of the equivalent generic-
mapped package.
2)
For an entity simple name, the declarative region of the external block of the design entity at
the root of the design hierarchy. This form of pathname element shall only occur at a place
where the previously identified declarative region is the root declarative region encompassing
the design entity that forms the root of the design hierarchy.
3)
For a component instantiation label, the declarative region of the design entity bound to the
component instance.
4)
For a block label, the declarative region of the block.
5)
For a generate statement label, the declarative region of the equivalent block corresponding to
the generate statement. If the generate statement is a for generate statement, the pathname
element shall include a static expression, the type of the expression shall be the same as the
type of the generate parameter, and the value of the expression shall belong to the discrete
range specified for the generate parameter. The type of the expression shall be determined by
applying the rules of 12.5 to the expression considered as a complete context, using the rule
that the type shall be discrete. If the type of the expression is universal_integer and the type of
the generate parameter is an integer type, an implicit conversion of the expression to the type of
the generate parameter is assumed.
It is an error when evaluating the external name if, at any stage, a declarative region corresponding
to a package name in a package pathname or to a pathname element in an absolute or relative
pathname does not exist. It is an error when evaluating the external name if a package simple name
in an external pathname denotes an uninstantiated package.
It is an error when evaluating an external name if the identified declarative region does not contain a
declaration of an object whose simple name is the object simple name of the external pathname. It is also an
error when evaluating an external name if the object denoted by an external constant name is not a constant,
or if the object denoted by an external signal name is not a signal, or if the object denoted by an external
variable name is not a variable. Moreover, it is an error if the base type of the object denoted by an external
name is not the same as the base type of the type mark in the subtype indication of the external name.
If the subtype indication denotes a composite subtype, then the object denoted by the external name is
viewed as if it were of the subtype specified by the subtype indication. For each index range, if any, in the
subtype, if the subtype defines the index range, the object is viewed with that index range; otherwise, the
object is viewed with the index range of the object. The view specified by the subtype shall include a
matching element (see 9.2.3) for each element of the object denoted by the external name.
If the subtype indication denotes a scalar subtype, then the object denoted by the external name is viewed as
if it were of the subtype specified by the subtype indication; moreover, it is an error when evaluating the
external name if this subtype does not have the same bounds and direction as the subtype of the object
denoted by the external name.
The evaluation of an external name has no other effect than to determine the named entity denoted by the
name.
NOTE 1—A generic constant may be denoted by an external constant name, a signal port may be denoted by an external
signal name and a variable port may be denoted by an external variable name.
NOTE 2—Since the object denoted by an external name cannot be declared within a process or subprogram, if the object
is a variable, it will be a shared variable.
NOTE 3—A declarative region corresponding to a package name or a pathname element does not exist if the name or
label is not declared. It may also not exist in the case of a component instance that is unbound, or in the case of an if
generate statement for which no block is generated.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
147
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
NOTE 4—It is not possible to use an external name to denote the local generics or local ports of a component
instantiated in a component instantiation statement.
NOTE 5—If a package has the same simple name as the entity at the root of the design entity, the external pathnames for
an object in the package and an object in the design hierarchy, could, in some cases, comprise the same sequence of
simple names. A package pathname starts with a different delimiter (@) from an absolute pathname (.) in order to avoid
such an ambiguity.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
