IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
225
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
13. Design units and their analysis
13.1 Design units
Certain constructs are independently analyzed and inserted into a design library; these constructs are called
design units. One or more design units in sequence comprise a design file.
design_file ::=  design_unit { design_unit }
design_unit ::= context_clause library_unit
library_unit ::=
primary_unit
| 
secondary_unit
primary_unit ::=
entity_declaration
|
configuration_declaration
 
| 
package_declaration
 
| 
package_instantiation_declaration
 
| 
context_declaration
 
| 
PSL_verification_unit
secondary_unit ::=
architecture_body
| 
package_body
Design units in a design file are analyzed in the textual order of their appearance in the design file. Analysis
of a design unit defines the corresponding library unit in a design library. A library unit is either a primary
unit or a secondary unit. A secondary unit is a separately analyzed body of a primary unit resulting from a
previous analysis.
It is an error if the context clause preceding a library unit that is a context declaration is not empty.
The name of a primary unit is given by the first identifier after the initial reserved word of that unit. Of the
secondary units, only architecture bodies are named; the name of an architecture body is given by the identi-
fier following the reserved word architecture. Each primary unit in a given library shall have a simple name
that is unique within the given library, and each architecture body associated with a given entity declaration
shall have a simple name that is unique within the set of names of the architecture bodies associated with
that entity declaration.
Entity declarations, architecture bodies, and configuration declarations are discussed in Clause 3. Package
declarations, package bodies, and package instantiations are discussed in Clause 4. Context declarations are
discussed in 13.3. PSL verification units are described in IEEE Std 1850-2010.
13.2 Design libraries
A design library is an implementation-dependent storage facility for previously analyzed design units. A
given implementation is required to support any number of design libraries.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
226
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
library_clause  ::=  library logical_name_list ;
logical_name_list  ::=  logical_name { , logical_name }
logical_name  ::=  identifier
A library clause defines logical names for design libraries in the host environment. A library clause appears
as part of a context clause, either at the beginning of a design unit or within a context declaration. For the
former case, the declaration of each logical name defined by the library clause occurs immediately within
the root declarative region associated with the design unit. For a library clause that appears within a context
declarative region, the logical names are not declared; rather, there is an equivalent library clause that
declares the logical names (see 13.4).
If two or more logical names having the same identifier (see 15.4) appear in library clauses in the same
context clause, the second and subsequent occurrences of the logical name have no effect. The same is true
of logical names appearing both in the context clause of a primary unit and in the context clause of a
corresponding secondary unit.
Each logical name defined by the library clause denotes a design library in the host environment.
For a given library logical name, the actual name of the corresponding design library in the host
environment may or may not be the same. A given implementation shall provide some mechanism to
associate a library logical name with a host-dependent library. Such a mechanism is not defined by the
language.
There are two classes of design libraries: working libraries and resource libraries. A working library is the
library into which the library unit resulting from the analysis of a design unit is placed. A resource library is
a library containing library units that are referenced within the design unit being analyzed. Only one library
is the working library during the analysis of any given design unit; in contrast, any number of libraries
(including the working library itself) may be resource libraries during such an analysis.
Every design unit except a context declaration and package STANDARD is assumed to contain the
following implicit context items as part of its context clause:
library STD, WORK; use STD.STANDARD.all;
Library logical name STD denotes the design library in which the packages STANDARD, TEXTIO, ENV,
and REFLECTION reside (see Clause 16). The use clause makes all declarations within package
STANDARD directly visible within the corresponding design unit; see 12.4. Library logical name WORK
denotes the current working library during a given analysis. Library logical name IEEE denotes the design
library in which the mathematical, multivalue logic, synthesis packages, and the synthesis context
declarations reside (see Clause 16).
The library denoted by the library logical name STD contains no library units other than packages
STANDARD, TEXTIO, ENV, and REFLECTION.
A secondary unit corresponding to a given primary unit shall be placed into the design library in which the
primary unit resides.
NOTE—The design of the language assumes that the contents of resource libraries named in all library clauses in the
context clause of a design unit will remain unchanged during the analysis of that unit (with the possible exception of the
updating of the library unit corresponding to the analyzed design unit within the working library, if that library is also a
resource library).
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
227
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
13.3 Context declarations
A context declaration defines context items that may be referenced by design units.
context_declaration ::=
context identifier is
 
context_clause
end [ context ] [ context_simple_name ] ;
If a simple name appears at the end of a context declaration, it shall repeat the identifier of the context
declaration.
It is an error if a library clause in a context declaration defines the library logical name WORK, or if a
selected name in a use clause or a context reference in a context declaration has the library logical name
WORK as a prefix.
Example:
context project_context is
library project_lib;
use project_lib.project_defs.all;
library IP_lib;
context IP_lib.IP_context;
end context project_context;
13.4 Context clauses
A context clause defines the initial name environment in which a design unit is analyzed.
context_clause ::=  { context_item }
context_item  ::=
library_clause
| 
use_clause
 
| 
context_reference
context_reference ::=
context selected_name { , selected_name } ;
A library clause defines library logical names that may be referenced in the design unit; library clauses are
described in 13.2. A use clause makes certain declarations directly visible within the design unit; use clauses
are described in 12.4.
It is an error if a selected name in a context reference does not denote a context declaration.
A given context clause is equivalent to an expanded context clause containing only library clauses and use
clauses. The expanded context clause is formed from the given context clause by replacing each context
reference with the expanded context clause of the context clause in the context declaration denoted by the
selected name of the context reference.
For a context clause that precedes a library unit, rules concerning scope and visibility are interpreted to
apply to the expanded context clause at the place of the context clause.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
228
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
It is an error if, during analysis of a design unit, there is a library clause in the expanded context clause of the
design unit that occurs as part of a replacement of a context reference, and a logical name in that library
clause denotes a different design library from the design library denoted by the logical name during analysis
of the context declaration from which the library clause was expanded.
NOTE 1—The rules given for use clauses are such that the same effect is obtained whether the name of a library unit is
mentioned once or more than once by the applicable use clauses, or even within a given use clause.
NOTE 2—For a context clause that appears within a context declaration, the library clauses and use clauses have no
scope; hence, rules concerning scope and visibility do not apply.
13.5 Order of analysis
The rules defining the order in which design units can be analyzed are direct consequences of the visibility
rules. In particular
a)
A primary unit whose name is referenced within a given design unit shall be analyzed prior to the
analysis of the given design unit.
b)
A primary unit shall be analyzed prior to the analysis of any corresponding secondary unit.
In each case, the second unit depends on the first unit.
The order in which design units are analyzed shall be consistent with the partial ordering defined by the pre-
ceding rules.
If any error is detected while attempting to analyze a design unit, then the attempted analysis is rejected and
has no effect whatsoever on the current working library.
A given library unit is potentially affected by a change in any library unit whose name is referenced within
the given library unit. A secondary unit is potentially affected by a change in its corresponding primary unit.
If a library unit is changed (e.g., by reanalysis of the corresponding design unit), then all library units that are
potentially affected by such a change become obsolete and shall be reanalyzed before they can be used
again.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
