IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
49
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5. Types
5.1 General
This clause describes the various categories of types that are provided by the language as well as those
specific types that are predefined. The declarations of all predefined types are contained in package
STANDARD, the declaration of which appears in Clause 16.
A type is characterized by a set of values and a set of operations. The set of operations of a type includes the
explicitly declared subprograms that have a parameter or result of the type. The remaining operations of a
type are the basic operations and the predefined operations (see 5.2.6, 5.3.2.4, 5.4.3, and 5.5.2). These
operations are each implicitly declared for a given type declaration immediately after the type declaration
and before the next explicit declaration, if any.
A basic operation is an operation that is inherent in one of the following:
—
An assignment (in assignment statements and initializations)
—
An allocator
—
A selected name, an indexed name, or a slice name
—
A qualification (in a qualified expression), an explicit type conversion, a formal or actual part in the
form of a type conversion, or an implicit type conversion of a value of type universal_integer or
universal_real to the corresponding value of another numeric type
—
A numeric literal (for a universal type), the literal null (for an access type), a string literal, a bit string
literal, an aggregate, or a predefined attribute
There are five primary classes of types. A scalar type contains a single value. Scalar types include integer
types, floating-point types, physical types, and enumeration types. An enumeration type is defined by an
enumeration of its values. A composite type is a collection of elements. Composite types include array types
and record types. An access type provides access to objects of a given type. A file type provides access to
objects that contain a sequence of values of a given type. A protected type provides atomic and exclusive
access to a variable accessible to multiple processes.
The type mark in a port declaration or a parameter declaration or the subtype indication of an external name
may also denote an unspecified type. An unspecified type is an incomplete type indication that defines a set
of allowed operations.
The set of possible values for an object of a given type can be subjected to a condition that is called a
constraint (the case where the constraint imposes no restriction is also included); a value is said to satisfy a
constraint if it satisfies the corresponding condition. A subtype is a type together with a constraint. A value is
said to belong to a subtype of a given type if it belongs to the type and satisfies the constraint; the given type
is called the base type of the subtype. A type is a subtype of itself; such a subtype is said to be unconstrained
(it corresponds to a condition that imposes no restriction). The base type of a type is the type itself.
A composite subtype is said to be unconstrained if:
—
It is an array subtype with no index constraint and the element subtype either is not a composite
subtype or is an unconstrained composite type, or
—
It is a record subtype with at least one element of a composite subtype and each element that is of a
composite subtype is unconstrained.
A composite subtype is said to be fully constrained if:
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
50
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
—
It is an array subtype with an index constraint and the element subtype either is not a composite
subtype or is a fully constrained composite type, or
—
It is a record subtype and each element subtype either is not a composite subtype or is a fully
constrained composite subtype.
A composite subtype is said to be partially constrained if it is neither unconstrained nor fully constrained.
The set of operations defined for a subtype of a given type includes the operations defined for the type;
however, the assignment operation to an object having a given subtype only assigns values that belong to the
subtype. Additional operations, such as qualification (in a qualified expression) are implicitly defined by a
subtype declaration.
The term subelement is used in this standard in place of the term element to indicate either an element, or an
element of another element. Where other subelements are excluded, the term element is used instead.
A given type shall not have a subelement whose type is the given type itself.
A member of an object is one of the following:
—
A slice of the object
—
A subelement of the object
—
A slice of a subelement of the object
The name of a class of types is used in this standard as a qualifier for objects and values that have a type of
the class considered. For example, the term array object is used for an object whose type is an array type;
similarly, the term access value is used for a value of an access type.
NOTE 1—The set of values of a subtype is a subset of the values of the base type. This subset need not be a proper
subset.
NOTE 2—All composite subelements of an unconstrained type are unconstrained.
5.2 Scalar types
5.2.1 General
Scalar types consist of enumeration types, integer types, physical types, and floating-point types.
Enumeration types and integer types are called discrete types. Integer types, floating-point types, and
physical types are called numeric types. All scalar types are ordered; that is, all relational operators are
predefined for their values. Each value of a discrete or physical type has a position number that is an integer
value.
scalar_type_definition ::=
enumeration_type_definition
|
integer_type_definition
|
floating_type_definition
|   physical_type_definition
range_constraint ::= range range
range ::=
range_attribute_name
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
51
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
|   simple_range
|   range_expression
simple_range ::= simple_expression direction simple_expression
direction ::= to | downto
A range specifies a subset of values of a scalar type. A range is said to be a null range if the specified subset
is empty.
The range L to R is called an ascending range; if L > R, then the range is a null range. The range L downto
R is called a descending range; if L < R, then the range is a null range. L is called the left bound of the range,
and R is called the right bound of the range. The lower bound of a range is the left bound if the range is
ascending or the right bound if the range is descending. The upper bound of a range is the right bound if the
range is ascending or the left bound if the range is descending. The value V is said to belong to the range if
the relations (lower bound <= V) and (V <= upper bound) are both true. The operators >, <, and <= in the
preceding definitions are the predefined operators of the applicable scalar type.
For values of discrete or physical types, a value V1 is said to be to the left of a value V2 within a given range
if both V1 and V2 belong to the range and either the range is an ascending range and V2 is the successor of
V1, or the range is a descending range and V2 is the predecessor of V1. A list of values of a given range is in
left to right order if each value in the list is to the left of the next value in the list within that range, except for
the last value in the list.
Each scalar type and each scalar subtype has an implicitly defined record type, called range record, which
represents the range of that scalar type (see 5.3.3.2). A range record is said to correspond to a type or subtype
T and vice versa, if the type of the range record bounds matches T.
It is an error if the type of a range expression is not a range record type.
If a range constraint is used in a subtype indication, the type of the expressions (likewise, of the bounds of a
range attribute) shall be the same as the base type of the type mark of the subtype indication. A range
constraint is compatible with a subtype if each bound of the range belongs to the subtype or if the range
constraint defines a null range. Otherwise, the range constraint is not compatible with the subtype.
A subtype S1 is compatible with a subtype S2 if the range constraint associated with S1 is compatible with
S2.
The direction of a range constraint is the same as the direction of its range.
NOTE—Indexing and iteration rules use values of discrete types.
5.2.2 Enumeration types
5.2.2.1 General
An enumeration type definition defines an enumeration type.
enumeration_type_definition ::=
( enumeration_literal { , enumeration_literal } )
enumeration_literal ::=  identifier | character_literal
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
52
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
The identifiers and character literals listed by an enumeration type definition shall be distinct within the
enumeration type definition. Each enumeration literal is the declaration of the corresponding enumeration
literal. For the purpose of determining the parameter and result type profile of an enumeration literal, this
declaration is equivalent to the declaration of a parameterless function whose designator is the same as the
enumeration literal and whose result type is the same as the enumeration type; the declaration is,
nonetheless, a declaration of a literal, not of a function.
An enumeration type is said to be a character type if at least one of its enumeration literals is a character
literal.
Each enumeration literal yields a different enumeration value. The predefined order relations between
enumeration values follow the order of corresponding position numbers. The position number of the value
of the first listed enumeration literal is zero; the position number for each additional enumeration literal is
one more than that of its predecessor in the list.
If the same identifier or character literal is specified in more than one enumeration type definition, the
corresponding literals are said to be overloaded. At any place where an overloaded enumeration literal
occurs in the text of a program, the type of the enumeration literal is determined according to the rules for
overloaded subprograms (see 4.5).
Each enumeration type definition defines an ascending range.
Examples:
type MULTI_LEVEL_LOGIC is (LOW, HIGH, RISING, FALLING, AMBIGUOUS);
type BIT is ('0','1');
type SWITCH_LEVEL is ('0','1','X');     --  Overloads '0' and '1'
5.2.2.2 Predefined enumeration types
The predefined enumeration types are CHARACTER, BIT, BOOLEAN, SEVERITY_LEVEL,
RANGE_DIRECTION, 
FILE_OPEN_KIND, 
FILE_OPEN_STATUS, 
FILE_OPEN_STATE, 
and
FILE_ORIGIN_KIND.
The predefined type CHARACTER is a character type whose values are the 256 characters of the ISO/IEC
8859-1 character set. Each of the 191 graphic characters of this character set is denoted by the corresponding
character literal.
The declarations of the predefined types CHARACTER, BIT, BOOLEAN, SEVERITY_LEVEL,
RANGE_DIRECTION, 
FILE_OPEN_KIND, 
FILE_OPEN_STATUS, 
FILE_OPEN_STATE, 
and
FILE_ORIGIN_KIND appear in package STANDARD in Clause 16.
NOTE 1—The first 33 nongraphic elements of the predefined type CHARACTER (from NUL through DEL) are the
ASCII abbreviations for the nonprinting characters in the ASCII set (except for those noted in Clause 16). The ASCII
names are chosen as ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998 does not assign them abbreviations. The next 32 (C128 through C159) are
also not assigned abbreviations, so names unique to VHDL are assigned.
NOTE 2—Type BOOLEAN can be used to model either active high or active low logic depending on the particular
conversion functions chosen to and from type BIT.
5.2.3 Integer types
5.2.3.1 General
An integer type definition defines an integer type whose set of values includes those of the specified range.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
53
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
integer_type_definition ::=  range_constraint
An integer type definition defines both a type and a subtype of that type. The type is an anonymous type, the
range of which is selected by the implementation; this range shall be such that it wholly contains the range
given in the integer type definition. The subtype is a named subtype of this anonymous base type, where the
name of the subtype is that given by the corresponding type declaration and the range of the subtype is the
given range.
Each bound of a range constraint that is used in an integer type definition shall be a locally static expression
of some integer type, but the two bounds need not have the same integer type. (Negative bounds are
allowed.)
Integer literals are the literals of an anonymous predefined type that is called universal_integer in this
standard. Other integer types have no literals. However, for each integer type there exists an implicit
conversion that converts a value of type universal_integer into the corresponding value (if any) of the
integer type (see 9.3.6).
The position number of an integer value is the corresponding value of the type universal_integer.
The same arithmetic operators are predefined for all integer types (see 9.2). It is an error if the execution of
such an operation (in particular, an implicit conversion) cannot deliver the correct result (that is, if the value
corresponding to the mathematical result is not a value of the integer type).
An implementation may restrict the bounds of the range constraint of integer types other than type
universal_integer. However, an implementation shall allow the declaration of any integer type whose range
is wholly contained within the bounds –(263) and (263)–1 inclusive.
Examples:
type TWOS_COMPLEMENT_INTEGER is range -32768 to 32767;
type BYTE_LENGTH_INTEGER is range 0 to 255;
type WORD_INDEX is range 31 downto 0;
subtype HIGH_BIT_LOW is BYTE_LENGTH_INTEGER range 0 to 127;
5.2.3.2 Predefined integer types
The only predefined integer type is the type INTEGER. The range of INTEGER is implementation
dependent and shall include the range –(263) to (263)–1 inclusive. It is defined with an ascending range. The
declaration of type INTEGER appears in the package STANDARD in Clause 16.
NOTE—The range of INTEGER in a particular implementation is determinable from the values of its 'LOW and 'HIGH
attributes.
5.2.4 Physical types
5.2.4.1 General
Values of a physical type represent measurements of some quantity. Any value of a physical type is an
integral multiple of the primary unit of measurement for that type.
physical_type_definition ::=
range_constraint
 
units
 
primary_unit_declaration
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
54
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
 
{ secondary_unit_declaration }
end units [ physical_type_simple_name ]
primary_unit_declaration ::=  identifier ;
secondary_unit_declaration ::= identifier = physical_literal ;
physical_literal ::=  [ abstract_literal ] unit_name
A physical type definition defines both a type and a subtype of that type. The type is an anonymous type, the
range of which is selected by the implementation; this range shall be such that it wholly contains the range
given in the physical type definition. The subtype is a named subtype of this anonymous base type, where
the name of the subtype is that given by the corresponding type declaration and the range of the subtype is
the given range.
Each bound of a range constraint that is used in a physical type definition shall be a locally static expression
of some integer type, but the two bounds need not have the same integer type. (Negative bounds are
allowed.)
Each unit declaration (either the primary unit declaration or a secondary unit declaration) defines a unit
name. Unit names declared in secondary unit declarations shall be directly or indirectly defined in terms of
integral multiples of the primary unit of the type declaration in which they appear. The position numbers of
unit names need not lie within the range specified by the range constraint.
If a simple name appears at the end of a physical type declaration, it shall repeat the identifier of the type
declaration in which the physical type definition is included.
The abstract literal portion (if present) of a physical literal appearing in a secondary unit declaration shall be
an integer literal.
A physical literal consisting solely of a unit name is equivalent to the integer 1 followed by the unit name.
There is a position number corresponding to each value of a physical type. The position number of the value
corresponding to a unit name is the number of primary units represented by that unit name. The position
number of the value corresponding to a physical literal with an abstract literal part is the largest integer that
is not greater than the product of the value of the abstract literal and the position number of the
accompanying unit name.
The same arithmetic operators are predefined for all physical types (see 9.2). It is an error if the execution of
such an operation cannot deliver the correct result (i.e., if the value corresponding to the mathematical result
is not a value of the physical type).
An implementation may restrict the bounds of the range constraint of a physical type. However, an
implementation shall allow the declaration of any physical type whose range is wholly contained within the
bounds –(263) and (263)–1 inclusive.
Examples:
type DURATION is range -1E18 to 1E18
units
fs;
-- femtosecond
ps =   1000 fs;
-- picosecond
ns =   1000 ps;
-- nanosecond
us =   1000 ns;
-- microsecond
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
55
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
ms =   1000 us;
-- millisecond
sec = 1000 ms;
-- second
min = 60 sec;
-- minute
end units;
type DISTANCE is range 0 to 1E16
units
-- primary unit:
Å;
-- angstrom
-- metric lengths:
nm =
10 Å;
-- nanometer
um =
1000 nm;
-- micrometer (or micron)
mm =
1000 um;
-- millimeter
cm =
10 mm;
-- centimeter
m =   1000 mm;
-- meter
km =
1000 m;
-- kilometer
end units DISTANCE;
variable x: distance;
variable y: duration;
variable z: integer;
x := 5 Å + 13 m - 27 cm;
y := 3 ns + 5 min;
z := ns / ps;
x := z * m;
y := y/10;
z := 159.34 cm / m;
NOTE 1—The 'POS and 'VAL attributes may be used to convert between abstract values and physical values.
NOTE 2—The value of a physical literal, whose abstract literal is either the integer value zero or the floating-point value
zero, is the same value (specifically zero primary units) no matter what unit name follows the abstract literal.
5.2.4.2 Predefined physical types
The only predefined physical type is type TIME. The range of TIME is implementation dependent and shall
include the range –(263) to (263)–1. It is defined with an ascending range. All specifications of delays and
pulse rejection limits shall be of type TIME. The declaration of type TIME appears in package STANDARD
in Clause 16.
By default, the primary unit of type TIME (1 fs) is the resolution limit for type TIME. Any TIME value
whose absolute value is smaller than this limit is truncated to zero (0) time units. An implementation may
allow a given elaboration of a model (see Clause 14) to select a secondary unit of type TIME as the
resolution limit. Furthermore, an implementation may restrict the precision of the representation of values of
type TIME and the results of expressions of type TIME, provided that values as small as the resolution limit
are representable within those restrictions. It is an error if a given unit of type TIME appears anywhere
within the design hierarchy defining a model to be elaborated, and if the position number of that unit is less
than that of the secondary unit selected as the resolution limit for type TIME during the elaboration of the
model, unless that unit is part of a physical literal whose abstract literal is either the integer value zero or the
floating-point value zero.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
56
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
NOTE—By selecting a secondary unit of type TIME as the resolution limit for type TIME, it may be possible to
simulate for a longer period of simulated time, with reduced accuracy, or to simulate with greater accuracy for a shorter
period of simulated time.
Cross-references: Delay and rejection limit in a signal assignment, 10.5; disconnection, delay of a guarded
signal, 7.4; function NOW, 16.3; predefined attributes, functions of TIME, 16.2; simulation time, 14.7.3 and
14.7.4; type TIME, 16.3; updating a projected waveform, 10.5.2.2; wait statements, timeout clause in, 10.2;
elaboration of a declarative part, 14.4.
5.2.5 Floating-point types
5.2.5.1 General
Floating-point types provide approximations to the real numbers.
floating_type_definition ::=  range_constraint
A floating type definition defines both a type and a subtype of that type. The type is an anonymous type, the
range of which is selected by the implementation; this range shall be such that it wholly contains the range
given in the floating type definition. The subtype is a named subtype of this anonymous base type, where the
name of the subtype is that given by the corresponding type declaration and the range of the subtype is the
given range.
Each bound of a range constraint that is used in a floating type definition shall be a locally static expression
of some floating-point type, but the two bounds need not have the same floating-point type. (Negative
bounds are allowed.)
Floating-point literals are the literals of an anonymous predefined type that is called universal_real in this
standard. Other floating-point types have no literals. However, for each floating-point type there exists an
implicit conversion that converts a value of type universal_real into the corresponding value (if any) of the
floating-point type (see 9.3.6).
The same arithmetic operations are predefined for all floating-point types (see 9.2). A design is erroneous if
the execution of such an operation cannot deliver the correct result (that is, if the value corresponding to the
mathematical result is not a value of the floating-point type).
An implementation shall choose a representation for all floating-point types except for universal_real that
conforms to IEEE Std 754-2019. A minimum representation size of 64 bits is required for this chosen
representation.
An implementation may restrict the bounds of the range constraint of floating-point types other than type
universal_real. However, an implementation shall allow the declaration of any floating-point type whose
range is wholly contained within the bounds allowed by the chosen representation.
NOTE—An implementation is not required to detect errors in the execution of a predefined floating-point arithmetic
operation, since the detection of overflow conditions resulting from such operations might not be easily accomplished on
many host systems.
5.2.5.2 Predefined floating-point types
The only predefined floating-point type is the type REAL. The range of REAL is host-dependent and shall
be the largest allowed by the chosen representation. It is defined with an ascending range. The declaration of
type REAL appears in package STANDARD in Clause 16.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
57
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
NOTE—The range of REAL in a particular implementation is determinable from the values of its 'LOW and 'HIGH
attributes.
5.2.6 Predefined operations on scalar types
Given a type declaration that declares a scalar type T, the following operations are implicitly declared
immediately following the type declaration (except for the TO_STRING operations in package
STANDARD, which are implicitly declared at the end of the package declaration):
function MINIMUM (L, R: T) return T;
function MAXIMUM (L, R: T) return T;
function TO_STRING (VALUE: T) return STRING;
The MINIMUM operation returns the value of L if L < R, or the value of R otherwise. The MAXIMUM
operation returns the value of R if L < R, or the value of L otherwise. For both operations, the comparison is
performed using the predefined relational operator for the type.
The TO_STRING operation returns the string representation (see 5.7) of the value of its actual parameter.
The result type of the operation is the type STRING defined in package STANDARD.
The following operations are implicitly declared in package STD.STANDARD immediately following the
declaration of the type BOOLEAN:
function RISING_EDGE (signal S: BOOLEAN) return BOOLEAN;
function FALLING_EDGE (signal S: BOOLEAN) return BOOLEAN;
The function RISING_EDGE applied to a signal S of type BOOLEAN is TRUE if the expression
“S'EVENT and S” is TRUE, and FALSE otherwise. The function FALLING_EDGE applied to a signal S of
type BOOLEAN is TRUE if the expression “S'EVENT and not S” is TRUE, and FALSE otherwise.
The following operations are implicitly declared in package STD.STANDARD immediately following the
declaration of the type BIT:
function RISING_EDGE (signal S: BIT) return BOOLEAN;
function FALLING_EDGE (signal S: BIT) return BOOLEAN;
The function RISING_EDGE applied to a signal S of type BIT is TRUE if the expression “S'EVENT and S
= '1'” is TRUE, and FALSE otherwise. The function FALLING_EDGE applied to a signal S of type BIT is
TRUE if the expression “S'EVENT and S = '0'” is TRUE, and FALSE otherwise.
The following operation is implicitly declared in package STD.STANDARD at the end of the package
declaration:
function TO_STRING (VALUE: TIME; UNIT: TIME) return STRING;
This overloaded TO_STRING operation returns the string representation (see 5.7) of the value of its actual
parameter. The result type of the operation is the type STRING defined in package STANDARD. The
parameter UNIT specifies how the result is to be formatted. The value of this parameter shall be equal to one
of the units declared as part of the declaration of type TIME; the result is that the TIME value is formatted as
an integer or real literal representing the number of multiples of this unit, followed by the name of the unit
itself.
The following operations are implicitly declared in package STD.STANDARD at the end of the package
declaration:
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
58
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
function TO_STRING (VALUE: REAL; DIGITS: NATURAL) return STRING;
function TO_STRING (VALUE: REAL; FORMAT: STRING) return STRING;
These overloaded TO_STRING operations return the value of the VALUE parameter converted to a string
whose format is specified by the value of the DIGITS or FORMAT parameter, respectively. The result type
of the operations is the type STRING defined in package STANDARD.
For the operation with the DIGITS parameter, the result is the string representation of the value. The
DIGITS specifies how many digits appear to the right of the decimal point. If DIGITS is 0, then the string
representation is the same as that produced by the TO_STRING operation without the DIGITS or FORMAT
parameter. If DIGITS is non-zero, then the string representation contains an integer part followed by '.'
followed by the fractional part, using the specified number of digits, and no exponent (e.g., 3.14159).
For the operation with the FORMAT parameter, the format of the result is determined using the value of the
FORMAT parameter in the manner described in ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998, ISO/IEC 9899:2018 for the C
fprintf function. A model is erroneous if it calls the operation with a value for the FORMAT parameter
that is other than a conversion specification in which the conversion specifier is one of e, E, f, F, g, G, a, or
A. Moreover, the model is erroneous if the conversion specification contains a length modifier or uses an
asterisk for the field width or precision. An implementation shall support use of the conversion specifiers e,
E, f, g, and G, and may additionally support use of the conversion specifiers F, a, and A. A model is
erroneous if it calls the operation with a value for the FORMAT parameter that is a conversion specification
in which the conversion specifier is one of F, a, or A and the implementation does not support use of the
conversion specifier. The values of FLT_RADIX and DECIMAL_DIG (described in ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998,
ISO/IEC 9899:2018) are implementation defined.
5.3 Composite types
5.3.1 General
Composite types are collections of elements. These include both arrays (a collection whose elements have a
homogeneous type) and records (a collection whose elements potentially have heterogeneous types).
composite_type_definition ::=
array_type_definition
| 
record_type_definition
An object of a composite type represents a collection of objects, one for each element of the composite
object. Thus an object of a composite type ultimately represents a collection of objects of scalar, access, file
or protected types, one for each noncomposite subelement of the composite object.
If any subelement of a composite type has a protected type, then all noncomposite subelements of the
composite type shall have protected types. For each of these subelements of protected type, the guarantee of
exclusive access extends only to the shared data of that subelement and is not extended to other subelements
of the composite. Thus one process may access a method of one noncomposite subelement of the object
while another process may simultaneously access a method of a different noncomposite subelement.
If any subelement of a composite type has a file type, then all noncomposite subelements of the composite
type shall have file types.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
59
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5.3.2 Array types
5.3.2.1 General
An array object is a composite object consisting of elements that have the same subtype. The name for an
element of an array uses one or more index values belonging to specified discrete types. For an array object
whose subelements have neither a protected type nor a file type, the value of the object is a composite value
consisting of the value of its elements. Array objects with subelements of a protected type or a file type have
no value.
array_type_definition ::=
unbounded_array_definition 
    | 
constrained_array_definition
unbounded_array_definition ::=
array ( index_subtype_definition { , index_subtype_definition } )
 
of element_subtype_indication
constrained_array_definition ::=
array index_constraint 
of element_subtype_indication
index_subtype_definition ::= type_mark range <>
array_constraint ::=
index_constraint [ array_element_constraint ]
      | 
( open ) [ array_element_constraint ]
array_element_constraint ::= element_constraint
index_constraint ::=  ( discrete_range { , discrete_range } )
discrete_range ::= 
discrete_subtype_indication 
| 
range
An array constraint may be used to constrain an array type or subtype (see 5.3.2.2, 6.3).
An array object is characterized by the number of indices (the dimensionality of the array); the type,
position, and range of each index; and the type and possible constraints of the elements. The order of the
indices is significant.
A one-dimensional array has a distinct element for each possible index value. A multidimensional array has
a distinct element for each possible sequence of index values that can be formed by selecting one value for
each index (in the given order). The possible values for a given index are all the values that belong to the
corresponding range; this range of values is called the index range.
An unbounded array definition in which the element subtype indication denotes either an unconstrained
composite subtype or a subtype that is not a composite subtype defines an array type and a name denoting
that type. For each object that has the array type, the number of indices, the type and position of each index,
and the subtype of the elements are as in the type definition. The index subtype for a given index position is,
by definition, the subtype denoted by the type mark of the corresponding index subtype definition. The
values of the left and right bounds of each index range are not defined, but shall belong to the corresponding
index subtype; similarly, the direction of each index range is not defined. The symbol <> (called a box) in an
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
60
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
index subtype definition stands for an undefined range (different objects of the type need not have the same
bounds and direction).
An unbounded array definition in which the element subtype indication denotes a partially or fully
constrained composite subtype defines both an array type and a subtype of this type:
—
The array type is an implicitly declared anonymous type; this type is defined by an implicit
unbounded array definition, in which the element subtype indication denotes the base type of the
subtype denoted by the element subtype indication of the explicit unbounded array definition and in
which the index subtype definitions are those of the explicit unbounded array definition, in the same
order.
—
The array subtype is the subtype obtained by imposition of the constraint of the subtype denoted by
the element subtype indication of the explicit unbounded array definition as an array element
constraint on the array type.
A constrained array definition similarly defines both an array type and a subtype of this type:
—
The array type is an implicitly declared anonymous type; this type is defined by an (implicit)
unbounded array definition, in which the element subtype indication either denotes the base type of
the subtype denoted by the element subtype indication of the constrained array definition, if that
subtype is a composite type, or otherwise is the element subtype indication of the constrained array
definition, and in which the type mark of each index subtype definition denotes the subtype defined
by the corresponding discrete range.
—
The array subtype is the subtype obtained by imposition of the index constraint on the array type and,
if the element subtype indication of the constrained array definition denotes a fully or partially
constrained composite subtype, imposition of the constraint of that subtype as an array element
constraint on the array type.
If an array definition that defines both an array type and a subtype of that type is given for a type declaration,
the simple name declared by this declaration denotes the array subtype.
The direction of a discrete range is the same as the direction of the range or the discrete subtype indication
that defines the discrete range. If a subtype indication appears as a discrete range, the subtype indication
shall not contain a resolution indication.
Examples:
—
Examples of fully constrained array declarations:
type MY_WORD is array (0 to 31) of BIT;
--  A memory word type with an ascending range.
type DATA_IN is array (7 downto 0) of FIVE_LEVEL_LOGIC;
--  An input port type with a descending range.
—
Example of partially constrained array declarations:
type MEMORY is array (INTEGER range <>) of MY_WORD;
--  A memory array type.
—
Example of unconstrained array declarations:
type SIGNED_FXPT is array (INTEGER range <>) of BIT;
-- A signed fixed-point array type
type SIGNED_FXPT_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of 
SIGNED_FXPT;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
61
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
-- A vector of signed fixed-point elements
—
Example of partially constrained array declarations:
type SIGNED_FXPT_5x4 is array (1 to 5, 1 to 4) of SIGNED_FXPT;
-- A matrix of signed fixed-point elements
—
Examples of array object declarations:
signal DATA_LINE: DATA_IN;
   
--  Defines a data input line.
variable MY_MEMORY: MEMORY (0 to 2**n-1);
   
--  Defines a memory of 2n 32-bit words.
signal FXPT_VAL: SIGNED_FXPT (3 downto -4);
   
-- Defines an 8-bit fixed-point signal
signal VEC: SIGNED_FXPT_VECTOR (1 to 20)(9 downto 0);
   
-- Defines a vector of 20 10-bit fixed-point elements
variable SMATRIX: SIGNED_FXPT_5x4 (open)(3 downto -4);
   
-- Defines a 5x4 matrix of 8-bit fixed-point elements
NOTE—The rules concerning constrained type declarations mean that a type declaration with a constrained array
definition such as:
type T is array (POSITIVE range MIN_BOUND to MAX_BOUND) of ELEMENT;
is equivalent to the sequence of declarations
subtype index_subtype is POSITIVE range MIN_BOUND to MAX_BOUND;
type array_type is array (index_subtype range <>) of ELEMENT'BASE;
subtype T is array_type (index_subtype)element_constraint;
where index_subtype and array_type are both anonymous and element_constraint is the constraint that applies to the
subtype ELEMENT. Consequently, T is the name of a subtype and all objects declared with this type mark are arrays
that have the same index range.
Similarly, a type declaration with an unbounded array definition whose element subtype indication denotes a partially or
fully constrained subtype such as
type T is array (INTEGER range <>) of STRING(1 to 10);
is equivalent to the sequence of declarations
type array_type is array (INTEGER range <>) of STRING'BASE;
subtype T is array_type (open)(1 to 10);
5.3.2.2 Index constraints and discrete ranges
An index constraint determines the index range for every index of an array type and, thereby, the
corresponding array bounds.
For a discrete range used in a constrained array definition and defined by a range, an implicit conversion to
the predefined type INTEGER is assumed if the type of both bounds (prior to the implicit conversion) is the
type universal_integer. Otherwise, the type of the range shall be determined by applying the rules of 12.5 to
the range, considered as a complete context, using the rules that the type shall be discrete and that both
bounds shall have the same type. These rules apply also to a discrete range used in a loop parameter
specification (see 10.10) or a generate parameter specification (see 11.8).
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
62
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
If an array constraint of the first form (including an index constraint) applies to a type or subtype, then the
type or subtype shall be an unconstrained or partially constrained array type with no index constraint
applying to the index subtypes, or an access type whose designated type is such a type. In either case, the
index constraint shall provide a discrete range for each index of the array type, and the type of each discrete
range shall be the same as that of the corresponding index.
An array constraint of the first form is compatible with the type if, and only if, the constraint defined by each
discrete range is compatible with the corresponding index subtype and the array element constraint, if
present, is compatible with the element subtype of the type. If any of the discrete ranges defines a null range,
any array thus constrained is a null array, having no elements. An array value satisfies an index constraint if
at each index position the array value and the index constraint have the same index range. (Note, however,
that assignment and certain other operations on arrays involve an implicit subtype conversion.)
If an array constraint of the second form (including the reserved word open in place of an index constraint)
applies to a type or subtype, then the type or subtype shall be an array type or an access type whose
designated type is an array type. The array constraint imposes no further constraint on the index subtypes of
the array type. An array constraint of the second form is compatible with the type if, and only if, the array
element constraint, if present, is compatible with the element subtype of the type.
The index range for each index of an array object or array subelement of a composite object is determined as
follows:
a)
For a constant, variable, or signal declared by an object declaration, if the subtype indication of the
object declaration defines the index range, then the index range of the object is that defined by the
subtype indication; otherwise, the index range of the object is the corresponding index range of the
initial value if one is given. It is an error if the index range of the object cannot be determined from
either the subtype indication or the initialization expression. 
b)
For an attribute whose value is specified by an attribute specification, if the subtype of the attribute
defines the index range, the index range of the value of the attribute is that defined by the subtype;
otherwise, the index range of the value of the attribute is the corresponding index range of the
expression given in the specification.
c)
For an object designated by an access value, the index ranges are defined by the allocator that
creates the designated object (see 9.3.7).
d)
For an interface object of an array type, or a subelement of an interface object for which the
subelement type is an array type, each index range is obtained as follows: Let the subtype index
range be the corresponding index range of the subtype indication of the declaration of the object.
1)
If the subtype index range is defined by a constraint, the index range of the object is the subtype
index range.
2)
If the subtype index range is undefined, and the interface object is associated by more than one
association element or is associated by a single association element in which the formal
designator is a slice name, then the direction of the index range of the object is that of the
corresponding index subtype of the base type of the interface object, and the high and low
bounds of the index range of the object are respectively determined from the maximum and
minimum values of the indices given in the association element or elements corresponding to
the interface object.
3)
If the subtype index range is undefined, and the interface object is associated in whole (see
6.5.7.1) or is a subelement that is associated individually by a single association element other
than one in which the formal designator is a slice name, then the index range of the object is
obtained from the association element in the following manner:
—
For an interface object whose mode is in, inout or linkage, if the actual part includes a
conversion function or a type conversion, then the result type of that function or the type
mark of the type conversion shall define a constraint for the index range corresponding to
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
63
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
the index range of the object, and the index range of the object is obtained from that
constraint; otherwise, the index range is obtained from the object or value denoted by the
actual designator.
—
For an interface object whose mode is out, buffer, inout, or linkage, if the formal part
includes a conversion function or a type conversion, then the parameter subtype of that
function or the type mark of the type conversion shall define a constraint for the index
range corresponding to the index range of the object, and the index range is obtained from
that constraint; otherwise, the index range is obtained from the object denoted by the
actual designator.
—
For an interface object of mode inout or linkage, the index range determined by the first
rule shall be identical to the index range determined by the second rule.
For a given array interface object, or for a given array subelement of an interface object, it is an error if
application of the preceding rules yields different index ranges for any corresponding array subelements of
the given interface object or given subelement.
Examples:
type Word is array (NATURAL range <>) of BIT;
type Memory is array (NATURAL range <>) of Word (31 downto 0);
constant A_Word: Word := "10011";
   
--  The index range of A_Word is 0 to 4
entity E is
   
generic (ROM: Memory);
   
port (Op1, Op2: in Word; Result: out Word);
end entity E;
   
-- The index ranges of the generic and the ports are defined by
   
-- the actuals associated with an instance bound to E; these index
   
-- ranges are accessible via the predefined array attributes
   
-- (see Clause 16.2).
signal A, B: Word (1 to 4);
signal C: Word (5 downto 0);
Instance: entity E
generic map (ROM(1 to 2) => (others => (others => '0')))
 port map (A, Op2(3 to 4) => B(1 to 2), Op2(2) => B(3),
             Result => C(3 downto 1));
   -- In this instance, the index range of ROM is 1 to 2 (matching
   -- that of the actual), the index range of Op1 is 1 to 4 (matching
   -- the index range of A), the index range of Op2 is 2 to 4, and
   -- the index range of Result is(3 downto 1) (again matching the
   -- index range of the actual).
NOTE—An index constraint with a null discrete range for an index of an array subelement of a composite array type
defines a null array subelement type. The array type is not necessarily a null array type. For example, given the
declarations
type E is array (NATURAL range <>) of INTEGER;
type T is array (1 to 10) of E (1 to 0);
values of type T are not null arrays. Rather, they are arrays of ten elements, each of which is a null array.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
64
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5.3.2.3 Predefined array types
The predefined array types are STRING, BOOLEAN_VECTOR, BIT_VECTOR, INTEGER_VECTOR,
REAL_VECTOR, and TIME_VECTOR, defined in package STANDARD in Clause 16.
The values of the predefined type STRING are one-dimensional arrays of the predefined type
CHARACTER, indexed by values of the predefined subtype POSITIVE:
subtype POSITIVE is INTEGER range 1 to INTEGER'HIGH;
type STRING is array (POSITIVE range <>) of CHARACTER;
The values of the predefined types BOOLEAN_VECTOR, BIT_VECTOR, INTEGER_VECTOR,
REAL_VECTOR, and TIME_VECTOR, are one-dimensional arrays of the predefined types BOOLEAN,
BIT, INTEGER, REAL, and TIME, respectively, indexed by values of the predefined subtype NATURAL:
subtype NATURAL is INTEGER range 0 to INTEGER'HIGH;
type BOOLEAN_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of BOOLEAN;
type BIT_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of BIT;
type INTEGER_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of INTEGER;
type REAL_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of REAL;
type TIME_VECTOR is array (NATURAL range <>) of TIME;
Examples:
variable MESSAGE: STRING (1 to 17) := "THIS IS A MESSAGE";
signal LOW_BYTE: BIT_VECTOR (0 to 7);
constant MONITOR_ELEMENTS: BOOLEAN_VECTOR (LOW_BYTE'RANGE)
   
:= (others => FALSE);
constant ELEMENT_DELAYS: TIME_VECTOR (LOW_BYTE'RANGE)
   
:= (others => UNIT_DELAY);
variable BUCKETS: INTEGER_VECTOR (1 to 10);
variable AVERAGES: REAL_VECTOR (1 to 10);
5.3.2.4 Predefined operations on array types
Given a type declaration that declares a scalar array type T (see 9.2.3), the following operations are
implicitly declared immediately following the type declaration:
function MINIMUM (L, R: T) return T;
function MAXIMUM (L, R: T) return T;
The MINIMUM operation returns the value of L if L < R, or the value of R otherwise. The MAXIMUM
operation returns the value of R if L < R, or the value of L otherwise. For both operations, the comparison is
performed using the predefined relational operator for the type.
In addition, given a type declaration that declares a one-dimensional array type T whose elements are of a
scalar type E, the following operations are implicitly declared immediately following the type declaration:
function MINIMUM (L: T) return E;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
65
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
function MAXIMUM (L: T) return E;
The values returned by these operations are defined as follows.
—
The MINIMUM operation returns a value that is the least of the elements of L. That is, if L is a null
array, the return value is E'HIGH. Otherwise, the return value is the result of a two-parameter
MINIMUM operation. The first parameter of the two-parameter MINIMUM operation is the
leftmost element of L. The second parameter of the two-parameter MINIMUM operation is the
result of a single-parameter MINIMUM operation with the parameter being the rightmost
(L'LENGTH – 1) elements of L.
—
The MAXIMUM operation returns a value that is the greatest of the elements of L. That is, if L is a
null array, the return value is E'LOW. Otherwise, the return value is the result of a two-parameter
MAXIMUM operation. The first parameter of the two-parameter MAXIMUM operation is the left-
most element of L. The second parameter of the two-parameter MAXIMUM operation is the result
of a single-parameter MAXIMUM operation with the parameter being the rightmost (L'LENGTH –
1) elements of L.
Given a type declaration that declares a representable array type T (see 5.7), the following operation is
implicitly declared immediately following the type declaration:
function TO_STRING (VALUE: T) return STRING;
The TO_STRING operation returns the string representation (see 5.7) of the value of its actual parameter.
The result type of the operation is the type STRING defined in package STANDARD.
The following operations are implicitly declared in package STD.STANDARD immediately following the
declaration of the type BIT_VECTOR:
alias TO_BSTRING is TO_STRING [BIT_VECTOR return STRING];
alias TO_BINARY_STRING is TO_STRING [BIT_VECTOR return STRING];
function TO_OSTRING (VALUE: BIT_VECTOR) return STRING;
alias TO_OCTAL_STRING is TO_OSTRING [BIT_VECTOR return STRING];
function TO_HSTRING (VALUE: BIT_VECTOR) return STRING;
alias TO_HEX_STRING is TO_HSTRING [BIT_VECTOR return STRING];
These operations return strings that are the binary, octal, and hexadecimal representations, respectively, of
the parameters. For the TO_OSTRING operation, the result has an uppercase octal digit corresponding to
each group of three elements in the parameter value. If the length of the parameter value is not a multiple of
three, then one or two '0' elements are implicitly concatenated on the left of the parameter value to yield a
value that is a multiple of three in length. Similarly, for the TO_HSTRING operation, the result has an
uppercase hexadecimal digit corresponding to each group of four elements in the parameter value. If the
length of the parameter value is not a multiple of four, then one, two, or three '0' elements are implicitly
concatenated on the left of the parameter value to yield a value that is a multiple of four in length.
5.3.3 Record types
5.3.3.1 General
A record type is a composite type, objects of which consist of named elements. For a record object whose
subelements have neither a protected type nor a file type, the value of the object is a composite value
consisting of the values of its elements. Record objects with subelements of a protected type or a file type
have no value.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
66
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
record_type_definition ::=
record
 
{ element_declaration }
 
end record [ record_type_simple_name ]
element_declaration ::=
identifier_list : element_subtype_definition ;
identifier_list ::=  identifier { , identifier }
element_subtype_definition ::= subtype_indication
record_constraint ::=
( record_element_constraint { , record_element_constraint } )
record_element_constraint ::= record_element_simple_name element_constraint
A record constraint may be used to constrain a record type or subtype (see 6.3).
Each element declaration declares an element of the record type. The identifiers of all elements of a record
type shall be distinct. The use of a name that denotes a record element is not allowed within the record type
definition that declares the element.
An element declaration with several identifiers is equivalent to a sequence of single element declarations.
Each single element declaration declares a record element whose subtype is specified by the element
subtype definition.
If a simple name appears at the end of a record type declaration, it shall repeat the identifier of the type
declaration in which the record type definition is included.
A record type definition creates a record type; it consists of the element declarations in the order in which
they appear in the type definition.
A record type definition in which each element subtype definition denotes either an unconstrained
composite subtype or a subtype that is not a composite subtype defines a record type and a name denoting
that type.
A record type definition in which at least one element subtype definition denotes a partially or fully
constrained composite subtype defines both a record type and a subtype of this type:
—
The record type is an implicitly declared anonymous type; this type is defined by an implicit record
type definition with element declarations corresponding to those of the explicit record type
definition, in the same order. Each element declaration has the same identifier list as that of the
corresponding element declaration in the explicit record type definition. The element subtype
definition in each element declaration denotes the base type of the subtype denoted by the element
subtype definition of the corresponding element declaration in the explicit record type definition.
—
The record subtype is the subtype obtained by imposition of the constraints of the subtypes denoted
by the element subtype definitions of the explicit record type definition as a record constraint on the
record type.
If a record type definition that defines both a record type and a subtype of that type is given for a type
declaration, the simple name declared by this declaration denotes the record subtype.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
67
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
If a record constraint applies to a type or subtype, then the type or subtype shall be a record type or an access
type whose designated type is a record type. For each record element constraint in the record constraint, the
record type shall have an element with the same simple name as the record element simple name in the
record element constraint. A record constraint is compatible with the type if, and only if, the constraint in
each record element constraint is compatible with the element subtype of the corresponding element of the
type.
Example:
type DATE is
   record
      DAY   : INTEGER range 1 to 31;
      MONTH : MONTH_NAME;
      YEAR  : INTEGER range 0 to 4000;
   end record;
type SIGNED_FXPT_COMPLEX is
   record
      RE : SIGNED_FXPT;
      IM : SIGNED_FXPT;
   end record;
signal COMPLEX_VAL: SIGNED_FXPT_COMPLEX (RE(4 downto -16),
 
IM(4 downto -12));
5.3.3.2 Predefined record types
The declaration of each scalar type or subtype T defines an implicit record type, the range record of T, with
three elements: Left, Right, and Direction. The elements Left and Right are of type T. The element Direction
is of enumeration type RANGE_DIRECTION.
The implicit range record shall be defined using the following template:
type <unnamed_range_record> is record
    
Left      : <scalar_type>;
    Right     : <scalar_type>;
    Direction : RANGE_DIRECTION;
end record;
5.3.3.3 Predefined operations on record types
Given a type declaration that declares a representable record type T (see 5.7), the following operation is
implicitly declared immediately following the type declaration:
function TO_STRING (VALUE: T) return STRING;
The TO_STRING operation returns the string representation (see 5.7) of the value of its actual parameter.
The result type of the operation is the type STRING defined in package STANDARD.
NOTE—The TO_STRING function can be overridden to customize the returned string for a particular application. The
format described in 5.7 is reasonably compact and simple for a machine to produce and parse. However, it would be
challenging for a person to interpret from a simulation transcript.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
68
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5.4 Access types
5.4.1 General
An object declared by an object declaration is created by the elaboration of the object declaration and is
denoted by a simple name or by some other form of name. In contrast, objects that are created by the
evaluation of allocators (see 9.3.7) have no simple name. Access to such an object is achieved by an access
value returned by an allocator; the access value is said to designate the object.
access_type_definition ::=  access subtype_indication [ generic_map_aspect ]
For each access type, there is a literal null that has a null access value designating no object at all. The null
value of an access type is the default initial value of the type. Other values of an access type are obtained by
evaluation of a special operation of the type, called an allocator. Each such access value designates an object
of the subtype defined by the subtype indication of the access type definition. This subtype is called the
designated subtype and the base type of this subtype is called the designated type. 
An object declared to be of an access type shall be an object of class variable. An object designated by an
access value is always an object of class variable. It is an error if the object declared to be of access type is
an object of subclass shared variable.
If the designated type of an access type is a file type or a composite type with a subelement of a file type, an
access value of that access type designates a file object. Similarly if the designated type of an access type is
a protected type or a composite type with a subelement of a protected type, then an access value of that
access type designates an object with a protected type. 
When a generic map aspect is present, the subtype indication shall denote an uninstantiated protected type
declared in a protected type declaration. The generic map aspect, in this case, optionally associates a single
actual with each formal generic (or member thereof) in the corresponding protected type declaration. Each
formal generic (or member thereof) shall be associated at most once. The generic map aspect is described in
6.5.7.2.
For an access type definition whose designated type is specified by an uninstantiated protected type and a
generic map aspect there is an equivalent implicit protected type instance declaration and an access type
definition whose designated type is the implicitly defined protected type instance. The implicit protected
type instance is defined immediately prior to the access type declaration in the same declarative region. A
reference to the access type whose designated type is specified by an uninstantiated protected type and a
generic map aspect is the same as a reference to an access type whose designated type is an explicitly
declared protected type instance. The implicitly defined protected type instance declaration does not have a
simple name.
The designated type of an access type may denote an uninstantiated protected type without a generic map
aspect. In this case the generic map aspect shall be part of the allocator (see 9.3.7).
The only form of constraint that is allowed after the name of an access type in a subtype indication is an
array constraint or a record constraint. An access value belongs to a corresponding subtype of an access type
either if the access value is the null value or if the value of the designated object satisfies the constraint.
Examples:
type ADDRESS is access MEMORY;
type BUFFER_PTR is access TEMP_BUFFER;
type SB_Ptr_Type_slv is access ScoreBoardPType_slv ;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
69
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
-- ScoreBoardPType_slv is defined in Clause 5.6.4
type SB_Generic_Ptr_Type is access ScoreBoardGenericPType ;
-- access to uninstantiated protected types is allowed
-- ScoreBoardGenericPType is defined in Clause 5.6.2
type SB_Ptr_Type_int is access ScoreBoardGenericPType
generic map (
ExpectedType    => integer,
ActualType      => integer,
check           => std.standard."="
);
NOTE 1—An access value delivered by an allocator can be assigned to several variables of the corresponding access
type. Hence, it is possible for an object created by an allocator to be designated by more than one variable of the access
type. An access value can only designate an object created by an allocator; in particular, it cannot designate an object
declared by an object declaration.
NOTE 2—If the type of the object designated by the access value is an array type or has a subelement that is of an array
type, this object is constrained with the array bounds supplied implicitly or explicitly for the corresponding allocator.
5.4.2 Incomplete type declarations
The type of an element of the designated type of an access type can be another access type or even the same
access type. This permits mutually dependent and recursive access types. Declarations of such types require
a prior incomplete type declaration for one or more types.
incomplete_type_declaration ::= type identifier ;
For each incomplete type declaration there shall be a corresponding full type declaration with the same
identifier. This full type declaration shall occur later and immediately within the same declarative part as the
incomplete type declaration to which it corresponds.
Prior to the end of the corresponding full type declaration, the only allowed use of a name that denotes a type
declared by an incomplete type declaration is as the type mark in the subtype indication of an access type
definition; no constraints are allowed in this subtype indication.
Example of a recursive type:
type CELL;  --  An incomplete type declaration.
type LINK is access CELL;
type CELL is
record
      VALUE : INTEGER;
      SUCC  : LINK;
      PRED  : LINK;
   end record CELL;
variable HEAD: LINK := new CELL'(0, null, null);
variable \NEXT\: LINK := HEAD.SUCC;
Examples of mutually dependent access types:
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
70
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
type PART;  --  Incomplete type declarations.
type WIRE;
type PART_PTR is access PART;
type WIRE_PTR is access WIRE;
type PART_LIST is array (POSITIVE range <>) of PART_PTR;
type WIRE_LIST is array (POSITIVE range <>) of WIRE_PTR;
type PART_LIST_PTR is access PART_LIST;
type WIRE_LIST_PTR is access WIRE_LIST;
type PART is 
record
PART_NAME   : STRING (1 to MAX_STRING_LEN);
CONNECTIONS : WIRE_LIST_PTR;
   
end record;
type WIRE is
   
record
      WIRE_NAME : STRING (1 to MAX_STRING_LEN);
      CONNECTS  : PART_LIST_PTR;
   end record;
5.4.3 Allocation and deallocation of objects
An object designated by an access value is allocated by an allocator for that type. An allocator is a primary
of an expression; allocators are described in 9.3.7. For each access type, a deallocation operation is
implicitly declared immediately following the full type declaration for the type. 
Given the following access type declaration:
type AT is access T;
the following legacy operation is implicitly declared immediately following the access type declaration:
procedure DEALLOCATE (P: inout AT);
Procedure DEALLOCATE takes as its single parameter a variable of the specified access type. The
operation has no effect other than setting the access parameter P to the null value for the specified type. 
NOTE—If an access value is copied to a second variable and the first variable is then deleted, the first variable is set to
null. However, the designated object remains allocated and the second variable still designates the object.
5.5 File types
5.5.1 General
A file type definition defines a file type. File types are used to define objects representing files in the host
system environment. The value of a file object is the sequence of values contained in the host system file.
file_type_definition ::= file of type_mark
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
71
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
The type mark in a file type definition defines the subtype of the values contained in the file. The type mark
may denote either a fully constrained, a partially constrained, or an unconstrained subtype. The base type of
this subtype shall not be a file type, an access type, or a protected type. If the base type is a composite type,
it shall not contain a subelement of an access, protected, or file type. If the base type is an array type, it shall
be a one-dimensional array type whose element subtype is fully constrained. If the base type is a record type,
it shall be fully constrained.
NOTE—A type mark in a file type declaration may be a formal generic type or have a subelement of a formal generic
type. However, for an instance of the enclosing declaration that defines the formal generic type, a check is required that
the actual generic type is neither an access type, protected type or file type nor contains a subelement of an access type,
protected type or file type. Depending on the implementation, this check may be done during analysis of the
instantiation, or it may be deferred until the design hierarchy is elaborated.
Examples:
file of STRING         --  Defines a file type that can contain
                       
--  an indefinite number of strings of
                       
--  arbitrary length.
file of NATURAL        --  Defines a file type that can contain
                       
--  only nonnegative integer values.
5.5.2 File operations
The language implicitly defines the operations for objects of a file type. Given the following file type
declaration:
type FT is file of TM;
where type mark TM is as described in 5.5.1, the following operations are implicitly declared immediately
following the file type declaration:
procedure FILE_OPEN (file F: FT;
                     External_Name: in STRING;
                     Open_Kind: in FILE_OPEN_KIND := READ_MODE);
procedure FILE_OPEN (Status: out FILE_OPEN_STATUS;
                     file F: FT;
                     External_Name: in STRING;
                     Open_Kind: in FILE_OPEN_KIND := READ_MODE);
impure function FILE_OPEN (file F: FT; 
   
External_Name: in STRING; 
   
Open_Kind: in FILE_OPEN_KIND := READ_MODE) 
return FILE_OPEN_STATUS;
procedure FILE_REWIND (file F: FT);
procedure FILE_SEEK (file F: FT; Offset: INTEGER; 
   
Origin: FILE_ORIGIN_KIND := FILE_ORIGIN_BEGIN);
procedure FILE_TRUNCATE (
file F: FT; Size: INTEGER; 
       
Origin: FILE_ORIGIN_KIND := 
FILE_ORIGIN_BEGIN);
function FILE_STATE (file F: FT) return FILE_OPEN_STATE;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
72
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
function FILE_MODE (file F: FT) return FILE_OPEN_KIND;
function FILE_POSITION (file F: FT;
Origin: FILE_ORIGIN_KIND := 
FILE_ORIGIN_BEGIN)
return INTEGER;
function FILE_SIZE (file F: FT) return INTEGER;
function FILE_CANSEEK (file F: FT) return BOOLEAN;
procedure FILE_CLOSE (file F: FT);
procedure READ (file F: FT; VALUE: out TM);
procedure WRITE (file F: FT; VALUE: in TM);
procedure FLUSH (file F: FT);
function ENDFILE (file F: FT) return BOOLEAN;
The FILE_OPEN procedures open an external file specified by the External_Name parameter and associate
it with the file object F. If the call to FILE_OPEN is successful (see the following), the file object is said to
be open and the file object has an access mode dependent on the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter
(see 16.3).
—
If the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter is READ_MODE, the access mode of the file
object is read-only. In addition, the file object is initialized so that a subsequent READ will return
the first value in the external file. The file position is at the file beginning (position zero). Values are
read from the file object in the order that they appear in the external file.
—
If the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter is READ_WRITE_MODE, the access mode of the
file object is read-write. The file position is at the file beginning (position zero). Values are read
from the file object in the order in which they appear in the external file. Values written to the file
object are placed in the external file in the order in which they are written.
—
If the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter is WRITE_MODE, the access mode of the file
object is write-only. In addition, the external file is made initially empty. The file position is at the
beginning of the file (position zero). Values written to the file object are placed in the external file in
the order in which they are written.
—
If the value supplied to the Open_Kind parameter is APPEND_MODE, the access mode of the file
object is write-only. In addition, the file object is initialized so that values written to it will be added
to the end of the external file in the order in which they are written. The file position is at the file
ending.
A slash ('/') occurring as an element of an External_Name is interpreted by the implementation as signifying
the path separator sign. The implementation shall transform the slash into the implementation-defined
representation of the path separator sign.
In forms of FILE_OPEN with a Status parameter, the value returned through the Status parameter indicates
the results of the procedure call:
—
A value of OPEN_OK indicates that the call to FILE_OPEN was successful. If the call to
FILE_OPEN specifies an external file that does not exist at the beginning of the call, and if the
access mode of the file object passed to the call is write-only, then the external file is created.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
73
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
—
A value of STATUS_ERROR indicates that the file object already has an external file associated
with it.
—
A value of NAME_ERROR indicates that the external file does not exist (in the case of an attempt to
read from the external file) or the external file cannot be created (in the case of an attempt to write or
append to an external file that does not exist). This value is also returned if the external file cannot be
associated with the file object for any reason.
—
A value of MODE_ERROR indicates that the external file cannot be opened with the requested
Open_Kind.
The first form of FILE_OPEN causes an error to occur if the second form of FILE_OPEN, when called
under identical conditions, would return a Status value other than OPEN_OK.
A call to FILE_OPEN of the first form is successful if and only if the call does not cause an error to occur.
Similarly, a call to FILE_OPEN of the latter form is successful if and only if it returns a status value of
OPEN_OK.
The impure function FILE_OPEN implements the same behavior as the procedure FILE_OPEN, with
parameters F, External_Name, Open_Kind, and Status. The procedure’s output parameter Status of type
FILE_OPEN_STATUS in the return value of the function. 
The unit of measurement for all read, write, seek and size operations is one scalar or fully constrained value
as denoted by the type mark in the file type definition. If the type mark in a file type definition denotes an
unconstrained array type, then each operation shall use the fully constrained element type of that
unconstrained one-dimensional array type as a unit of measurement. The size and data structure alignment
of the physical representation of a type mark is implementation-defined.
The procedure FILE_REWIND moves the file position to the beginning of the file (position zero). It is an
error if the file object is not open. It is also an error if the underlying file does not support seek operations,
especially for the predefined file objects INPUT and OUTPUT.
The procedure FILE_SEEK moves the file position relative to one of three origins denoted by the parameter
Origin. Negative values for parameter Offset are allowed. The file position shall not exceed the range of a
file object, which ranges from position zero (beginning) to the position returned by FILE_SIZE minus one.
It is an error if the file object is not open. It is also an error if the underlying file does not support seek
operations, especially for the predefined file objects INPUT and OUTPUT.
The procedure FILE_TRUNCATE sets the size of a file. The file size can be set as an absolute size from the
beginning or as a relative size by setting the Origin parameter. If parameter Origin is either
FILE_ORIGIN_CURRENT or FILE_ORIGIN_END, then Size can also be negative to shrink a file. It is an
error if the file object is not open or the file object was opened in READ_MODE. It is also an error if the
underlying file does not support resize operations, especially for the predefined file objects INPUT and
OUTPUT.
The function FILE_STATE returns the current state (FILE_OPEN_STATE) of a file object, which is
STATE_OPEN if the file is open, otherwise STATE_CLOSED.
The function FILE_MODE returns the mode (FILE_OPEN_KIND) in which a file object was opened. It is
an error to call FILE_MODE if the file is not open.
The function FILE_POSITION returns the current file position. The return value is relative to one of three
possible origins denoted by the Origin parameter. The absolute value of the return value shall not exceed the
file object's range from position 0 to the position returned by FILE_SIZE minus one. It is an error if the
underlying file does not support seek operations, especially for the predefined file objects INPUT and
OUTPUT.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
74
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
The function FILE_SIZE returns the current size of a file object. It is also an error if the underlying file does
not support seek operations, especially for the predefined file objects INPUT and OUTPUT.
The function FILE_CANSEEK returns TRUE if the file supports seek and size operations, otherwise
FALSE. It is also an error if the file is not open.
If a file object F is associated with an external file, procedure FILE_CLOSE terminates access to the
external file associated with F and closes the external file. If F is not associated with an external file, then
FILE_CLOSE has no effect. In either case, the file object is no longer open after a call to FILE_CLOSE that
associates the file object with the formal parameter F.
An implicit call to FILE_CLOSE exists in a subprogram body for every file object declared in the
corresponding subprogram declarative part. Each such call associates a unique file object with the formal
parameter F and is called whenever the corresponding subprogram completes its execution.
Procedure READ retrieves the next value from a file; it is an error if the access mode of the file object is
write-only or if the file object is not open. Procedure WRITE appends a value to a file. Procedure FLUSH
requests that the implementation complete the effect of all previous calls to the WRITE procedure for a file.
For the WRITE and FLUSH procedures, it is an error if the access mode of the file object is read-only or if
the file is not open. Function ENDFILE returns FALSE if a subsequent READ operation on an open file
object whose access mode is read-only can retrieve another value from the file; otherwise, it returns TRUE.
Function ENDFILE always returns TRUE for an open file object whose access mode is write-only. It is an
error if ENDFILE is called on a file object that is not open.
For a file type declaration in which the type mark denotes an unconstrained or partially constrained array
type, the same operations are implicitly declared, except that the READ operation is declared as follows:
procedure READ (file F: FT; VALUE: out TM; LENGTH: out Natural);
The READ operation for such a type performs the same function as the READ operation for other types, but
in addition it returns a value in parameter LENGTH that specifies the actual length of the array value read by
the operation. If the object associated with formal parameter VALUE is shorter than this length, then only
that portion of the array value read by the operation that can be contained in the object is returned by the
READ operation, and the rest of the value is lost. If the object associated with formal parameter VALUE is
longer than this length, then the entire value is returned and remaining elements of the object are unaffected
by the READ operation.
An error will occur when a READ operation is performed on file F if ENDFILE(F) would return TRUE at
that point.
If a READ operation for a file object is executed after a FLUSH operation for a second file object and the
same external file is associated with both file objects, an implementation should fulfill the request made by
the FLUSH operation before retrieving a value from the file for the READ operation.
At the beginning of the execution of any file operation, the execution of the file operation blocks (see 14.6)
until exclusive access to the file object denoted by the formal parameter F can be granted. Exclusive access
to the given file object is then granted and the execution of the file operation proceeds. Once the file
operation completes, exclusive access to the given file object is rescinded.
NOTE 1—Due to latency of distributed or remote file systems, it is possible that a value written before a FLUSH
operation is not available before a subsequent READ operation to that same file.
NOTE 2—Predefined package TEXTIO is provided to support formatted human-readable I/O. It defines type TEXT (a
file type representing files of variable-length text strings) and type LINE (an access type that designates such strings).
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
75
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
READ and WRITE operations are provided in package TEXTIO that append or extract data from a single line.
Additional operations are provided to read or write entire lines and to determine the status of the current line or of the file
itself. Package TEXTIO is defined in Clause 16.
5.6 Protected types
5.6.1 Protected type definitions
A protected type definition defines a protected type. A protected type implements instantiatiable regions of
sequential statements, each of which shall have exclusive access to shared data. Shared data is a set of
variable objects that may be potentially accessed as a unit by multiple processes.
protected_type_definition  ::=
protected_type_declaration
|    protected_type_body
Each protected type declaration appearing immediately within a given declarative region (see 12.1) shall
have exactly one corresponding protected type body appearing immediately within the same declarative
region and textually subsequent to the protected type declaration. Similarly, each protected type body
appearing immediately within a given declarative region shall have exactly one corresponding protected
type declaration appearing immediately within the same declarative region and textually prior to the
protected type body.
5.6.2 Protected type declarations
A protected type declaration declares the external interface to a protected type.
protected_type_declaration  ::=
protected
 
protected_type_header
 
protected_type_declarative_part
 
end protected [ protected_type_simple_name ]
protected_type_header ::=
[ generic_clause
[ generic_map_aspect ; ] ]
protected_type_declarative_part  ::=
{ protected_type_declarative_item }
protected_type_declarative_item  ::=
subprogram_declaration
| 
subprogram_instantiation_declaration
| 
attribute_specification
| 
use_clause
|
private_variable_declaration
| 
alias_declaration
    
private_variable_declaration ::= 
private variable_declaration
If a simple name appears at the end of a protected type declaration, it shall repeat the identifier of the type
declaration in which the protected type definition is included.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
76
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
If the protected type header is empty, the protected type declared by a protected type declaration is called a
simple protected type. If the protected type header contains a generic clause and no generic map aspect, the
protected type is called an uninstantiated protected type. If the protected type header contains both a generic
clause and a generic map aspect, the protected type is called a generic-mapped protected type. A protected
type declared with a generic clause in which every generic declaration has a default, and with no generic
map aspect, is still considered to be an uninstantiated protected type and is not a generic-mapped protected
type with default associations for all of the generic declarations.
Each subprogram specified within a given protected type declaration defines an abstract operation, called a
method, that operates atomically and exclusively on a single object of the protected type. In addition to the
object of the protected type operated on by the subprogram, parameters may be explicitly specified in the
formal parameter list of the subprogram declaration of the subprogram. 
It is erroneous if, after a method completes, a data object internal to a protected type and a data object
external to a protected type both have a reference either directly or through a series of references to the same
object.
A private variable declaration denotes that it is only visible within the scope of the protected type. An alias
declared within a protected type declaration may make a method of the private variable visible. It is an error
if an alias declared within a protected type declaration denotes anything other than a method of a protected
type. 
Examples:
type SharedCounter is protected
procedure increment (N: Integer := 1);
procedure decrement (N: Integer := 1);
impure function value return Integer;
end protected SharedCounter;
type ComplexNumber is protected
procedure extract (variable r, i: out Real);
procedure add (variable a, b: inout ComplexNumber);
end protected ComplexNumber;
type VariableSizeBitArray is protected
procedure add_bit (index: Positive; value: Bit);
impure function size return Natural;
end protected VariableSizeBitArray;
-- A protected type with a generic clause
type ScoreBoardGenericPType is protected 
    generic (
type ExpectedType;
type ActualType;
function check(
Actual : ActualType;  
     
Expected : ExpectedType)
return Boolean
) ; 
    ... 
end protected ScoreBoardGenericPType;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
77
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5.6.3 Protected type bodies
A protected type body provides the implementation for a protected type.
protected_type_body ::=
      protected body
            protected_type_body_declarative_part
      end protected body [ protected_type_simple name ]
protected_type_body_declarative_part ::=
      { protected_type_body_declarative_item }
protected_type_body_declarative_item ::=
subprogram_declaration
| 
subprogram_body
| 
subprogram_instantiation_declaration
| 
package_declaration
| 
package_body
| 
package_instantiation_declaration
| 
type_declaration
|
subtype_declaration
|
constant_declaration
|
variable_declaration
|
file_declaration
|
alias_declaration
|
attribute_declaration
|
attribute_specification
|
use_clause
|
group_template_declaration
|
group_declaration
Each subprogram declaration appearing in a given protected type declaration shall have a corresponding
subprogram body appearing in the corresponding protected type body.
NOTE—Subprogram bodies appearing in a protected type body not lexically conformant to any of the subprogram
declarations in the corresponding protected type declaration are visible only within the protected type body. Such
subprograms may have parameters that are access and file types and (in the case of functions) return types that are or
contain access types.
Examples:
type SharedCounter is protected body
variable counter: Integer := 0;
procedure increment (N: Integer := 1) is
begin
 
counter := counter + N;
   
end procedure increment;
   
procedure decrement (N: Integer := 1) is
   
begin
    
counter := counter - N;
   
end procedure decrement;
   
impure function value return Integer is
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
78
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
   
begin
      
return counter;
   
end function value;
end protected body SharedCounter;
type ComplexNumber is protected body
variable re, im: Real;
procedure extract (variable r, i: out Real) is
begin
      
r := re;
      
i := im;
end procedure extract;
procedure add (variable a, b: inout ComplexNumber) is
      
variable a_real, b_real: Real;
      
variable a_imag, b_imag: Real;
   
begin
      
a.extract (a_real, a_imag);
      
b.extract (b_real, b_imag);
      
re  := a_real + b_real;
      
im := a_imag + b_imag;
   
end procedure add;
end protected body ComplexNumber;
type VariableSizeBitArray is protected body
type bit_vector_access is access Bit_Vector;
variable bit_array: bit_vector_access := null;
variable bit_array_length: Natural := 0;
 
procedure add_bit (index: Positive; value: Bit) is
 
variable tmp: bit_vector_access;
begin
if index > bit_array_length then
tmp := bit_array;
bit_array := new bit_vector (1 to index);
if tmp /= null then
bit_array (1 to bit_array_length) := tmp.all;
            
deallocate (tmp);
 
end if;
 
bit_array_length := index;
end if;
bit_array (index) := value;
   
end procedure add_bit;
impure function size return Natural is
begin
return bit_array_length;
 
end function size;
end protected body VariableSizeBitArray;
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
79
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
5.6.4 Protected type instantiation
A protected type instantiation declaration defines an instance of an uninstantiated protected type. The
instance is called an instantiated protected type.
protected_type_instantiation_definition ::=
new subtype_indication [ generic_map_aspect ]
A protected type instantiation declaration is the conjunction of a type declaration (see 6.2) and a protected
type instantiation definition.
The subtype indication shall denote an uninstantiated protected type or a composite the subelements of
which are all of the same uninstantiated protected type. The generic map aspect, if present, optionally
associates a single actual with each formal generic (or member thereof) in the corresponding protected type
declaration. Each formal generic (or member thereof) shall be associated at most once. The generic map
aspect is described in 6.5.7.2.
The protected type instantiation declaration is equivalent to a protected type declaration and a protected type
body that jointly define a generic-mapped protected type. The simple name of the generic-mapped protected
type declaration is the identifier of the protected type instantiation declaration. The generic-mapped
protected type declaration has the generic clause of the uninstantiated protected type declaration, the generic
map aspect of the protected type instantiation declaration, and the declarations of the uninstantiated
protected type declaration. The meaning of any identifier appearing anywhere in the generic-mapped
protected type declaration or protected type body is that associated with the corresponding occurrence of the
identifier in the protected type instantiation declaration, the uninstantiated protected type declaration, or the
uninstantiated protected type body, respectively, except that an identifier that denotes the uninstantiated
protected type denotes, instead, the generic-mapped protected type.
If the protected type instantiation declaration occurs immediately within an enclosing package declaration,
the generic-mapped protected type body occurs at the end of the package body corresponding to the
enclosing package declaration. If there is no such package body, then there is implicitly a package body
corresponding to the enclosing package declaration, and that implicit body contains the generic-mapped
protected type body.
Examples:
-- See Clause 5.6.2 for declaration of ScoreBoardGenericPType
type ScoreBoardPType_slv is new ScoreBoardGenericPType 
generic map (
ExpectedType    => std_logic_vector, 
ActualType      => std_logic_vector, 
check           => std_match
);  
5.7 String representations
The string representation of a value of a given type is a value of type STRING, defined as follows:
—
For a given value of type CHARACTER, the string representation contains one element that is the
given value.
—
For a given value of an enumeration type other than CHARACTER, if the value is a character literal,
the string representation contains a single element that is the character literal; otherwise, the string
representation is the sequence of characters in the identifier that is the given value. For an extended
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
80
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
identifier, the string representation does not include leading or trailing backslash characters, and
backslash characters in the extended identifier are not doubled in the string representation.
—
For a given value of an integer type, the string representation is the sequence of characters of an
abstract literal without a point and whose value is the given value. The sequence of characters of the
abstract literal may be preceded by a sign character with no intervening space or format effector
characters.
—
For a given value of a physical type, the string representation is the sequence of characters of a
physical literal whose value is the given value. The sequence of characters of the physical literal may
be preceded by a sign character with no intervening space or format effector characters.
—
For a given value of a floating-point type, the string representation is the sequence of characters of an
abstract literal that includes a point and whose value is the given value. The sequence of characters
of the abstract literal may be preceded by a sign character with no intervening space or format
effector characters.
—
For a given value that is of a one-dimensional array type whose element type is a character type that
contains only character literals, the string representation has the same length as the given value. Each
element of the string representation is the same character literal as the matching element of the given
value.
—
 A value of type STRING is its own string representation.
—
 For a given value that is of a composite type other than described by the preceding paragraphs, the
string representation consists of the concatenation of a left parenthesis, the string representations of
the elements of the type separated by commas, and a right parenthesis. The string representations of
the elements occur in left-to-right order for objects of any array type and in element declaration order
for objects of a record type. A composite type is representable if the base type of each of its elements
is a scalar type or a representable composite type. 
—
For a given value that is of a composite type that cannot be represented according to the preceding
list item, there is no string representation.
—
For a value of an access type, a file type, or a protected type, there is no string representation.
In each case where a string representation is defined, the index range of the string representation is not
specified by this standard.
—
When forming the string representation for a WRITE procedure in STD.TEXTIO (see Clause 16) or
for an implicitly defined TO_STRING operation, except where otherwise specified for an
overloaded TO_STRING operation:
—
For a value of an integer type, the abstract literal is a decimal literal and there is no exponent.
—
Letters in a basic identifier are in lowercase.
—
Characters in an extended identifier include the leading and trailing reverse solidus (backslash). In
the case that a graphic character in an extended identifier is a backslash, the backslash shall be
doubled in the string.
—
For a value of a floating-point type, when forming the string representation for a TO_STRING
operation, the abstract literal is a decimal literal in standard form, consisting of a normalized
mantissa and an exponent in which the sign is present and the “e” is in lowercase. The number of
digits in the standard form is implementation defined. When forming the string representation for the
WRITE procedure for type REAL in which the DIGITS parameter has the value 0, the string
representation is as described for a TO_STRING operation. When the DIGITS parameter is
non-zero, the abstract literal is a decimal literal without the exponent, as described in 16.4.
—
For a value of a physical type, when forming the string representation for a TO_STRING operation,
the abstract literal is a decimal literal that is an integer literal, there is no exponent, and there is a
single SPACE character between the abstract literal and the unit name. If the physical type is TIME,
the unit name is the simple name of the resolution limit (see 5.2.4.2); otherwise, the unit name is the
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
81
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
simple name of the primary unit of the physical type. When forming the string representation for the
WRITE procedure for type TIME, the physical literal is as described in 16.4.
—
There are no insignificant leading or trailing zeros in a decimal literal.
—
There is no sign preceding the string representation of a nonnegative value of an integer, physical or
floating-point type.
5.8 Unspecified types
5.8.1 General
An unspecified type abstractly defines the type class for generics, ports, parameters, and external names. An
object of unspecified type obtains its actual type from the type or object with which it is associated.
An unspecified type can be classified as a private, scalar, discrete, integer, physical, floating, array, access,
or file incomplete type definition. Each of these classifications defines the operators that shall be
implemented on the actual type associated with the formal.
unspecified_type_indication ::= 
type is incomplete_type_definition
incomplete_type_definition ::=
private_incomplete_type_definition
|   scalar_incomplete_type_definition
|   discrete_incomplete_type_definition
|   integer_incomplete_type_definition
|   physical_incomplete_type_definition
|   floating_incomplete_type_definition
    |  array_incomplete_type_definition
    |   access_incomplete_type_definition
    |   file_incomplete_type_definition
incomplete_subtype_indication ::=
        
subtype_indication
   |   unspecified_type_indication
incomplete_type_mark ::=
type_mark
    |   unspecified_type_indication
private_incomplete_type_definition ::= private
scalar_incomplete_type_definition ::= <>
discrete_incomplete_type_definition ::= ( <> )
integer_incomplete_type_definition ::= range <>
physical_incomplete_type_definition ::= units <>
floating_incomplete_type_definition ::= range <>.<>
array_incomplete_type_definition ::=
array ( array_index_incomplete_type_list )
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
82
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
of element_incomplete_subtype_indication
array_index_incomplete_type_list ::= 
    array_index_incomplete_type { , array_index_incomplete_type } 
array_index_incomplete_type ::=
index_subtype_definition
|   index_constraint
    |   unspecified_type_indication
access_incomplete_type_definition ::=
access access_incomplete_subtype_indication
file_incomplete_type_definition ::=
file of file_incomplete_type_mark
The following basic operations are defined for all incomplete type definitions: assignment, allocation, type
qualification and type conversion. In addition, each incomplete type definition may include additional
predefined operators and attributes.
5.8.2 Private incomplete type
A private incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any type except file and protected types.
The following operators are implicitly defined for a private incomplete type: equality (=) and inequality (/=).
The predefined attributes for a private incomplete type, and objects thereof, are the same as the predefined
attributes common to all types other than a file type or protected type, and objects thereof, respectively, as
listed in 16.2.
5.8.3 Scalar incomplete type
A scalar incomplete type is an unspecified type definition that denotes any scalar type.
The following operators are implicitly defined for a scalar incomplete type: equality (=), inequality (/=), less
than (<), less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, and
TO_STRING. The predefined attributes for the scalar incomplete type, and objects thereof are the same as
the predefined attributes for scalar types, and objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.4 Discrete incomplete type
A discrete incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any discrete type.
The following operators are implicitly defined for a discrete incomplete type: equality (=), inequality (/=),
less than (<), less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), MINIMUM, MAXIMUM,
and TO_STRING. The predefined attributes for the discrete incomplete type, and objects thereof are the
same as the predefined attributes for discrete types, and objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.5 Integer incomplete type
An integer incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any integer type.
The following operators are implicitly defined for an integer incomplete type: equality (=), inequality (/=),
less than (<), less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), identity (+), negation (–),
addition (+), subtraction (–), multiplication (*), division (/), exponentiation (**), remainder (rem), modulus
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
83
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
(mod), absolute value (abs), MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, and TO_STRING. The predefined attributes for the
integer incomplete type, and objects thereof are the same as the predefined attributes for integer types, and
objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.6 Physical incomplete type
A physical incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any physical type.
The following operators are implicitly defined for a physical incomplete type: equality (=), inequality (/=),
less than (<), less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), identity (+), negation (–),
addition (+), subtraction (–), multiplication (*), division (/), remainder (rem), modulus (mod), absolute value
(abs), MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, and TO_STRING. The predefined attributes for the physical incomplete
type, and objects thereof are the same as the predefined attributes for physical types, and objects thereof,
respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.7 Floating incomplete type
A floating incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any floating-point type.
The following operators are implicitly defined for a floating incomplete type: equality (=), inequality (/=),
less than (<), less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), identity (+), negation (–),
addition (+), subtraction (–), multiplication (*), division (/), exponentiation (**), absolute value (abs),
MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, and TO_STRING. The predefined attributes for the floating incomplete type, and
objects thereof are the same as the predefined attributes for floating-point types, and objects thereof,
respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.8 Array incomplete type
An array incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any array type.
If an array index incomplete type in an array index incomplete type list has the form of an unspecified type
indication, then the incomplete type definition of the unspecified type indication shall be a discrete
incomplete type definition. It is an error if, in an array index incomplete type list, one array index incomplete
type has the form of an index constraint and another array index incomplete type has the form of an index
subtype definition.
The element incomplete subtype indication may either be a subtype indication or an unspecified type
indication.
The basic operation aggregation is defined for any array incomplete type. The following operators are
implicitly defined for any array incomplete type: equality (=), and inequality (/=). In addition, the operator
concatenation (&) is implicitly defined, if the array incomplete type denotes a single dimensional array. If
the array incomplete type denotes a scalar array type, then the following operators are defined: less than (<),
less than or equal (<=), greater than (>), greater than or equal (>=), MINIMUM and MAXIMUM. The
predefined attributes for the array incomplete type, and objects thereof, are the same as the predefined
attributes for array types, and objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2. Objects created from array
incomplete type can be used as a prefix in indexed names (see 8.4) and slice names (see 8.5).
5.8.9 Access incomplete type
An access incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any access type.
The access incomplete subtype indication may either be a subtype indication or an unspecified type
indication.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
IEEE Std 1076-2019
IEEE Standard for VHDL Language Reference Manual
84
Copyright © 2019 IEEE. All rights reserved.
The following operators are implicitly defined for an access incomplete type: equality (=) and inequality (/
=). The predefined attributes for the interface access type, and objects thereof are the same as the predefined
attributes for access types, and objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2.
5.8.10 File incomplete type
A file incomplete type is an unspecified type that denotes any file type.
The file incomplete type mark may either be a type mark or an unspecified type indication.
The following interface subprograms are implicitly defined for a file incomplete type: FILE_OPEN,
FILE_CLOSE, READ, WRITE, FLUSH, ENDFILE, FILE_REWIND, FILE_SEEK, FILE_TRUNCATE,
FILE_STATE, FILE_MODE, FILE_POSITION, FILE_SIZE, FILE_CANSEEK. The predefined attributes
for the file incomplete type, and objects thereof are the same as the predefined attributes for file types, and
objects thereof, respectively, as listed in 16.2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BOURNEMOUTH UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on December 30,2019 at 14:55:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
